# Vitoc

![Vitoc](../images/vitoc.jpg)

A fair proportion of the Amarr Empire still consists today of slaves, mainly of
Minmatar origin. Through the ages the Amarrians have employed various methods of
keeping the slaves in line. Many of them are deemed, by the standards of the
Gallenteans and others, to be highly immoral and cruel. One of the more recent
and controversial methods is called after the antidote drug involved - Vitoc.

With the Vitoc method, slaves are injected with a toxic chemical substance that
is fatal unless the recipient receives a constant supply of an antidote. The
method first appeared a few centuries ago when the Amarrians started manning
some of their space ships with slaves. As space crew the slaves had to be
cajoled into doing complex, often independent work, making older methods of
slave control undesirable. Although the more conventional ways of subduing
slaves with force (actual or threat of) are still widely used in other forced
labor areas, the Vitoc method has proven itself admirably for the fleet.

There are two major downsides to the Vitoc method: the method works only as long
as the toxic substances remain in the body, and as long as there is no
alternative way for a slave to receive the antidote. If either applies, a slave
can obviously not be forced to do anything.

For the past decades a fierce R&D battle has taken place between the Amarr
Empire on one hand and the Minmatar Republic and the Gallente Federation on the
other. The Amarrians are constantly upgrading and altering the toxic chemicals
they use on the slaves, while the others are struggling to research and
manufacture a permanent remedy. For many years this battle waxed and waned, with
the Amarrians releasing a new version every few years, but the others managing
to discover a remedy shortly thereafter.

But then, a little more than a decade ago, the Amarrians introduced a new and
revolutionary toxic drug, which resembles a virus in many ways, and no cure has
yet been found for it. This is mainly due to the erratic nature of the drug,
which constantly changes its appearance and behavior on a regular basis. These
changes seem to be either controlled, or at least predicted by the Amarrians, as
they always seem to have the right antidote for their own use out in time before
the toxin changes again. Thus, the Minmatars and the Gallenteans are constantly
chasing a ghost - a toxic virus that shifts into something completely different
just when they think they’ve finally nailed it down.

There are more novel features about this new toxic chemical, letting many belief
that either an Amarrian scientist genius suddenly appeared or the Amarrians got
some crucial help from the outside; the Caldari and even the Jovians have been
mentioned in this regard. One of the additional features in the new virus is
that the resulting death is much more horrifying now; those that fail to get
antidote will suffer excruciating pain that can last for days before death
finally comes. With the older versions, death by lack of antidote was never so
horrible, sometimes even peaceful. This led to mass-suicides at times when slave
crews refused to take the antidote; preferring death over humiliating slavery.
Now, although still an option, few people are brave enough to dare it. Another
new feature is the very pleasurable side-effect created by the antidote: for the
first few hours after injection the receiver gets a very powerful euphoric
sensation - as long as he is affected by the toxic virus. Both these extra
features have helped bind the slaves to the drug, and thus to their
slave-masters.

The transformation of the struggle this past decade has been like a god’s gift
for the pirate and smuggling industry. Not only is it much easier for this
industry to quickly and repeatedly adapt to the ever-changing products (the
antidote in this case) than for conventional industries, but the fact that no
permanent cure for the new drug had been found means that the ever-increasing
number of newly freed Minmatar slaves still need the antidote to survive - hence
creating a thriving business outside the Amarr Empire for the antidote for the
first time. A lot of people have made fortune beyond their dreams by dealing in
the Vitoc antidote, but just as many have been ruined when all their expensive
antidote stock became obsolete due to a sudden change in the toxic virus.
