# Fatal and The rabbit

![Fatal and The rabbit](../images/fandrabbit.jpg)

Jirai Laitanen and Korako Kosakami, today better known by the nicknames they
gave themselves: Fatal and the Rabbit, began their careers as promising space
ship captains in the 37th (Octopus) Squadron of the Caldari Navy. Laitanen was a
shrewd and gifted captain, with a glib tongue and charismatic smile. Many
expected him to reach a position of authority in the end. But he was also vain
and greedy; traits that led to his eventual desertion. Kosakami was much more
introvert than his friend Laitanen, but he had a brilliant mind and was a
technical wizard.

When, in the space of one week, Laitanen was passed over for promotion and
Kosakami was blamed for a lethal crash landing, the two friends decided to
desert. They stole a couple of Condor-class frigates, the same they still use
today, and set off to a pirate-infested sector between Caldari and Gallente
space. This took place in YC 86.

It didn't take long for them to establish themselves among the criminal society
and few months after their arrival they’d set up their own criminal
organization, called the Guristas, which is an amalgamation of two Caldari words
meaning ‘naughty people’ and is also a slang term for ‘gang’.

The Guristas are famous for their raids into civilized territory, something that
very few pirate clans are willing or able to do. The mission of these raids is
most often simply to steal cargo or passengers (for ransom) from freighters, but
on numerous occasions their main intention seems to be to sabotage empire
installations (mining facilities, sentry guns, and the like). This has led to
speculations that some unscrupulous empire companies or even governments are
hiring the Guristas to take out property of the competition.

But by far the most celebrated of the Gurista raids was when they kidnapped the
Gallentean ambassador to the Caldari State and received an enormous ransom from
his family. The kidnapping itself was a brilliant feat and clearly demonstrated
that Fatal and the Rabbit were far from being the stereotypical brainless brats
that most people regarded pirates to be.

Ambassador Luecin Rileau, son of the diamond-king Darouen Rileau, had only one
noticeable vice, and that was gambling. His gambling fascination was probably
the main reason why he had sought to become the Gallentean ambassador to the
Caldari State, a notoriously tricky position. Ambassador Rileau frequented the
Grand Tiegjon Casino in the Echelon Entertainment Studio station in the Caldari
system of Vellaine. It was there that Fatal and the Rabbit struck.

The two of them docked at the station under in disguise. The Rabbit (Kosakami)
stayed behind in the ship while Fatal (Laitanen) entered the casino. Fatal
involved himself in a game of Pettokori, a popular electro-board gambling game,
which Rileau was participating in. In the course of the game, Fatal deliberately
lost money to the ambassador and finally, when he’d run out of money, Fatal
offered his ship to the ambassador. The ambassador accepted and proceeded to win
the game. Fatal offered to show the ambassador his newly won ship and Rileau,
accompanied by several bulky bodyguards, accepted.

But while the game was underway the Rabbit had been busy. He rigged the boarding
ramp to the ship with tanks filled with sleeping gas. Needless to say, when the
ambassador and his bodyguards entered the boarding ramp, they were promptly put
to sleep. Ambassador Rileau was then carried into the ship and Fatal and the
Rabbit innocently left the station. It was only when another ship docked in the
same berth an hour later and discovered the boarding ramp full of snoring
bodyguards that the alarm was raised, but by then the kidnappers were long gone.

The Gallente Federation was unable to apprehend the culprits and in the end the
ambassador’s family paid a huge ransom in uncut diamonds to the Guristas. All
this drama received a great deal of media attention and even if Fatal and the
Rabbit relished the attention for a time, in the end it only hampered them.
Being the most notorious criminal in the world of EVE has a downside, mainly
that traveling around is not as easy as it used to be. This has forced the
Guristas to lay low for the past few months.
