# Language translators.

![Language translators.](../images/lang.jpg)

The most obvious problem in inter-racial communication is the language
difference. All the major races in EVE speak their own language and all attempts
to make one the _lingua franca_ have failed because of stubbornness over
accepting any one language as the dominant one. Amarish, the language of the
largest empire, is obviously the most common language, especially as most
Minmatars also speak the language. But the Gallenteans refuse to acknowledge
Amarish as the official language in inter-racial communications as they don't
want to give the Amarr Empire the political prestige that would follow. On the
other hand, the language of the Gallente Federation (Gallentean) is by far the
most common second language, largely because of their very influential
entertainment industry. But the Caldari absolutely refuse to speak Gallentean
and the Amarrians are also not too keen on it for the same reason that the
Gallenteans won't speak Amarish.

This means that most high-profile discussions between representatives of the
empires, such as in the numerous inter-racial organizations, rely heavily on
interpreters. But in one field the language a person knows has become irrelevant
and the field is that of a space captain.

The unique nature of the capsule with its sophisticated neural rigging gives
ship captains the option to link their minds to all kinds of computer systems,
which they can use to their advantage. One of these devices that is today a
standard feature in all capsules is the translator module.

The translator module is a software module that is a part of the communication
system of the ship. It intercepts all incoming communications and translates
them into the language preferred by the captain. The first translators were
pretty lousy by todayâ€™s standard, they could only translate written
communications and frequently messed up the text. But the latest versions are
able to translate voice as well as text and have become very good at projecting
mood-swings, slang, weird accents and such, for a near perfect translation. With
the steady increase in cyber-implants these translators have begun appearing
outside the capsule as well and many predict that within a few years translators
will make the debate over which language should prevail in inter-racial
communication a futile one.
