# Kyonoke Pit.

![Kyonoke Pit.](../images/kypit.jpg)

In the deep recesses of the Taisy system lies a lonely mining station called
Kyonoke Pit. The station, built 40 years ago by a Caldari mining company owned
by the Hyasyoda Corporation, was at that time the largest mining and refining
station of tasc (twin atomic superconductor crystal), the core component of
inter-stellar communication devices.

For years the mining operation went smoothly and Kyonoke Pit soon became one of
the most profitable mining stations of the Hyasyoda Corporation. Kyonoke Pit is
located on a huge asteroid and as the years went by the mining shafts dug ever
deeper into the heart of the asteroid.

Five years ago the space tower orbiting Taisy Prime received an emergency signal
from Kyonoke Pit. An epidemic of some sort had broken out on the mining station
and the crew was dying rapidly. The tower personnel lost contact with the Pit a
few minutes later and were unable to re-establish it.

A scout ship was sent out to investigate. On its arrival at the Pit, no lights
were visible on the station and no life-signs were detected. An emergency team,
clothed in protective suits, that was dispatched into the station was greeted by
the horrific sight of the station’s crew strewn all over the place dead and
decaying. The mask of agony on the men’s faces spoke volumes about their last
terrible ordeal and the garish red spots on their bloated bodies clearly
indicated that the cause of their death was by poisoning or some sort of a
plague. It was clear that the infliction had surfaced suddenly and slain the
crew in a matter of minutes.

The emergency team reported their findings to the scout ship docked outside and
then continued exploring. Some two hours later members of the emergency team
started complaining about discomfort and the captain of the scout ship ordered
them back to the ship. But on their way back the team-members collapsed in agony
- it was clear they had caught the deadly malady despite their protective suits.
The captain, fearful for the safety of himself and the rest of the crew,
detached the ship from the Pit and left the station while the rest of the
emergency team died on the docking ledge.

Thus began the story of the Kyonoke Infection - one of the most deadly and
mysterious pestilences man has come into contact with. The Caldari authorities
sealed Kyonoke Pit off a few hours after the incident described above. Further
research was made with great care and the results were not heartening. A
biological speck resembling a protein causes the plague. It enters the body
through the respiration system and then enters the blood stream. From there it
moves to the brain, where it germinates. In its advanced state, the protein
speck enters the medulla oblongata, where it infects the nerve cells very
rapidly. The host quickly loses control over all bodily functions, accompanied
by a great amount of pain, finally resulting in heart- and lung failure within
the space of a few minutes. The specks can survive in an advanced state for a
few days; they can leave a dead host and enter another living being close by, in
such cases the new host dies within a few hours once the speck has reached the
brain.

The speck can also be found in a basic state. As such, it can lie dormant for
years and it can survive in extreme environments and conditions. When it enters
a living being it usually starts developing to its advanced state, but this is
not always the case; it can also lie dormant within a person for a long period
of time. It can also enter the brain and start infecting proteins there, slowly
but steadily killing the host by eating up its brain over a course of few
months. This dual nature of the bio-speck makes it even more of an enigma, not
to mention more dangerous.

It can be safely deduced that the biological speck was accidentally uncovered in
the bowels of the asteroid Kyonoke Pit is on, but whether it originated there or
not is impossible to tell. It is virtually impossible to detect the speck in a
person, due to the fact it resembles normal proteins to such a high degree. This
has led to speculations that the speck evolved in humans or was even manmade a
long time ago, but these speculations have never been substantiated. In any
case, because of the difficulties in detecting and tracing the bio-speck and
because it has 100% fatality rate, the bio-speck has fascinated both military
researchers and terrorist groups, both of which are eager to get their hands on
the speck.

The space tower of Taisy Prime has today been converted into a huge research
facility, where the Caldari are fervently trying to get to know everything there
is about this curious biological speck. Kyonoke Pit itself has been sealed of
and remains in a permanent quarantine. Caldari police vessels guarding the
mining station make sure that no one without the proper authorization is allowed
near it. Some two years ago an unknown group managed to infiltrate the security
parameter around the Pit on two ships and entered the station. In addition to
acquiring samples of the bio-speck, the group loaded their cargo holds with the
highly valuable tasc from the station’s vast storage vaults. But on their way
out the bandits started showing the symptoms of being infected by the deadly
protein. One of the ships crashed back into the Pit after disembarking, severely
damaging the station and completely destroying the ship. The other ship managed
to escape the investigating Caldari vessels, but it disappeared without a trace
in an asteroid field and has not been heard from since. Today, debris and dead
bodies from the Pit float around it, making it even more hazardous for ships to
approach the crumbling mining installation. This, and tighter security measures
by the Caldari, have prevented anyone else from making a raid on the Pit.
