# Tyma Raitaru

![Tyma Raitaru](images/missile.jpg)

The name of Tyma Raitaru will forever be associated with the term freelance
research. Raitaru, a Caldari by birth, pioneered what has today become a popular
profession among rogue scientists and scholars around the world of EVE - that of
the knowledge nomad, selling his work to the highest bidder.

Raitaru began his career working in the R&D department at a company owned by the
Ishukone Corporation. He became increasingly frustrated about the fact that
Ishukone took all his work and inventions and made them their own, giving scant
credit to the creator. In the end he left and set up his own laboratory under
his sole control. There he struggled for some years, constantly on the brink of
financial ruin. It was only when he turned his focus toward the most practical
of all inventions - that of weaponry - that his career really took off. Forty
years ago Raitaru offered the blueprints for the Achilles missile for sale on
the open market. The Achilles missile was at that time the best missile
available and every empire and every faction wanted it. The Achilles missile
didn't employ any revolutionary new technology, but instead it combined many
solid concepts and designs to make it extremely reliable and powerful for a
small price. In the design of Achilles Raitaru combined the innovative approach
of the researcher with the practical mindset of the craftsman. Ever since, those
that have followed in Raitaru's footsteps have been most successful when they
take existing technologies and products and combine them to invent some superior
product. Most of today's freelance researchers work predominantly in the fields
of weapons and ship equipment, and they frequently operate out of space stations
or lone research outposts.
