# Lady Phanca's pet furrier

![Lady Phanca's pet furrier](../images/rodi.jpg)

The planet Radonis lies deep within the Amarr Empire in the fiefdom of
Ardishapur, one of the five royal families. Radonis is the capital of
Ardishapur's domain and is considered one of the leading places of theological
scholarship within the Amarr Empire.

The current head of the family and one of the Five Heirs, Yonis Ardishapur, had
his right hand amputated at birth and replaced by a cybernetic silver one. It's
the same for all male members of the Ardishapur family. For more than 700 years
an imperial law has decreed that every male born into the Ardishapur family
would have his right hand amputated at the wrist right after birth. The laws do
not forbid them from replacing it with a cyber-hand and today the silver hand is
the unofficial symbol of the Ardishapur family.

The circumstances which led to this imperial law are as bizarre as the law
itself. As it happened, Lady Phanca, the mother of the emperor at the time, was
visiting Radonis and staying at the Ardishapur's royal palace. Lady Phanca was a
legend in her time; a strict, extremely ambitious woman, in many ways ruthless
but still charismatic in her dealings with people. Many thought she had
unnaturally strong influence on her son, the emperor, and many cases can be
cited where the actions of the emperor can be directly linked to the wishes of
his mother. The Ardishapur decree, as it became known as, is one of them.

Lady Phanca had a pet furrier, a small furry animal commonly found as pet among
the Amarrian higher class. It was a well-known quirk that the otherwise severe
and dispassionate lady loved her pet lavishly. When young Uri Ardishapur, son of
the Ardishapur royal heir, killed the twittering creature at the dinner table,
the fury of the old lady left no doubt in the minds of those present that the
repercussions would be terrible. Persuading her son to pass the fore mentioned
laws, Uri Ardishapur became the first of the Ardishapurs to lose his right hand,
the hand that had slain lady Phanca's pet furrier.

Imperial laws are extremely strong within the Amarr Empire and are almost
regarded as the written will of god. It is very rare for any of them to be
changed or revoked. The Ardishapurs may at one time have wanted the law to be
revoked, but today they revel in this old tradition and consider it one of their
most important family heirlooms.
