# Gallente-Caldari War: The early days

![Gallente-Caldari War: The early days](images/gcwar.jpg)

By the time the Gallente Federation was founded two centuries ago the Caldari
Corporations were already well established in Caldari society. Although not
nearly as powerful as they are today, they were still preeminent in Caldari
economic life.

Shortly after jump gate technology was jointly discovered by the Gallente and
the Caldari a little over five hundred years before the Federation formed, the
Caldari corporations had started their own interstellar surveying and
colonization, separate from that conducted by the Gallente. It was these
colonies, kept as a secret from the Gallenteans, that became the source of
friction between the Gallenteans and the Caldari, culminating in the latter's
defection from the Federation and an ensuing war between the two races.

It all started when a Gallente exploration ship happened upon one of the hidden
Caldari colonies. When the Federation Senate learned of this they demanded a
full-scale investigation into the matter and that all hidden Caldari colonies
should immediately been put under Federation authority. This was too much for
the Caldari Corporations, which were already grumbling over increasing
Federation interference into their affairs. For the Caldari it was a simple
question of losing their autonomy forever by caving in or making a stand right
then and there. They decided to make a stand.

What made the situation so tense right from the start was the situation on
Caldari Prime. Being located in the same solar system as Gallente Prime made the
Gallenteans very nervous and, more importantly, a sizeable Gallentean population
was living on Caldari Prime. Right after the Caldari defected from the
Federation they focused on securing the jump gates leading to their (once)
hidden bases, as those bases provided the backbone to the Caldari military
infrastructure at that time. At the same time the Gallenteans moved their fleet
into orbit around Caldari Prime and started blocking the planet.

For the next few days nothing much happened. The Caldari were content to sit by
the jump gates, while the Gallenteans were debating how to best negotiate a
peace agreement. But the Caldari on Caldari Prime were restless. They found the
Gallente blockade intolerable and soon small-scale guerrilla activities
escalated into all out hostilities. In the end the Gallente population on the
planet had to pay the price for the Federation's indecisiveness.

The turning point came when Caldari partisans sabotaged the glass dome of the
Gallente-inhabited underwater city Nouvelle Rouvenor. More than half a million
perished. From then on a lengthy, bloody war between the two races was all but
inevitable â€“ the Federation retaliated at once by sending an invasion force down
to Caldari Prime and began a systematic orbital bombardment of the planet. Soon,
the Caldari population had been driven to the mountains and the forests; their
resistance getting weaker by the day. The only question was: how would the newly
formed Caldari State respond?
