# CONCORD

![CONCORD](images/concord.jpg)

CONCORD (Consolidated Cooperation and Relations Command) is an international
assembly of regulating bodies founded over a century ago, not long after the
five empires had established contact with each other. Relations between the five
were strained right from the beginning, and one of the primary aims of CONCORD
was to ease the pervasive tension and create a foundation for the empires to
work their differences out peacefully.

The organization is branched into numerous divisions, each of which handles a
certain aspect of the empires' relations. Of these divisions the CAD (Commerce
Assessment Department), which oversees interstellar trade agreements and
regulations, and the DED (Directive Enforcement Department), which oversees
policing in space, are by far the largest and most influential. Most spacefarers
will only ever deal with these two departments on any regular basis; to millions
of people, these two represent the actual face of CONCORD.

The inner workings of CONCORD are democratic in nature, with each of the five
empires technically possessing equal say in all matters (though a nation's
actual pull more often than not will come down to the persuasiveness of its
representatives on the debating floor). Early on, the Amarrians were adamant
that the Minmatar Republic would not gain admission to the assembly, but they
later reluctantly agreed.

For the first few years of its existence, CONCORD wielded limited power. The
fledgling organization had little diplomatic sway, and regulation enforcement
would time and time again prove difficult for its agents. It was not until 18
years after its founding that CONCORD gained the respect of the international
community. After the battle of Iyen-Oursta – the bloodiest and most costly
engagement the Gallente-Caldari War had seen in decades – both sides were tired
of fighting, though long-entrenched hatred and pride prevented either side from
asking for a ceasefire. CONCORD took the initiative, and in just under six
months managed to negotiate a peace accord between these two bitter enemies, one
that would endure for almost a century.

In the last two decades the organization's authority increased further,
particularly as interstellar trade grew into the cornerstone of New Eden's
economy that it is today. The growing power of CONCORD often raised concern
within the empires that the organization could begin to exercise leverage in
areas up until then regarded as the nations' internal affairs. No longer simply
a neutral ground for the empires to hammer out diplomatic agreements, CONCORD
had become an independent institution that set its own rules and regulations,
ones which it was both willing and able to uphold. The organization's
ever-expanding bureaucracy had subtly severed its cords over time, so that it
swore fealty to no nation. The only hold the empires had historically possessed
over the organization – that of financial support – had in addition been almost
completely erased, as revenues garnered through customs, confiscation of illegal
goods, license sales and the like were (and still are) more than enough to keep
the organization in the black.

On several occasions throughout CONCORD's history relations between the empires
deteriorated to within an inch of all-out war but were nursed back to health
through the organization's diplomacy and deterrence. Such was not to be the case
in late YC 110, when a fleet belonging to the Minmatar Elders and the Thukker
Tribe conducted a strike against the organization's core communications hub,
crippling its rapid response teams and enabling the Elders to mount a
large-scale offensive against the Amarr Empire. This marked the beginning of
what would become known as the Elder War.

CONCORD was back to a semblance of functionality in short order, but the damage
was already done; tensions had boiled over into conflict. While CONCORD imposed
peace enough to maintain the status quo and keep New Eden from slipping into
anarchy, the hostilities already invoked would not be quelled. Using auxiliary
forces composed of capsuleer paramilitaries, the nations of New Eden today fight
a war under the watchful gaze of CONCORD, which still struggles to rebuild and
redefine itself in the blood-red dawn of the Empyrean age. It remains to be seen
how – or, indeed, whether – this one-time pillar of New Eden will restore its
tarnished reputation.
