# Rebel with a cause

![Rebel with a cause](images/fiend.jpg)

Ten years ago security forces in the Caldari system of Suroken destroyed a
civilian ship. The headquarters of Hyasyoda, a Caldari Corporation, are located
in the system. The ship was found trespassing and refused to change course
despite numerous warnings and was blown up in the end.

Aboard the ship where numerous radicals, both Caldari and Gallenteans,
demonstrating against recently exposed information about dubious drug
experiments the Corporation was undertaking, involving for instance slaves
provided by the Amarrians.

All but one of the radicals were killed when the ship blew up, the only survivor
was the ship captain Aki Onikori, protected by his capsule. Amongst the dead was
his wife. Onikori swore that the death of his wife and his compatriots would be
avenged and in the decade since the incident he has made his vow come true
through several terrorist acts.

Onikori seldom goes by his real name and is best known to the public by the name
Fiend, a play on words of his name in Caldari. In the past few years his twisted
ideology has mutated from one of innocent anarchy to a bloody crusade against
authority in every form. Early on his focus was first and foremost on the
pharmaceuticals industry, but in recent years he has started targeting more
diverse targets and seems especially fond of governmental institutions. Onikori
is very persuasive and extremely driven and these traits have helped him secure
support from various sources sympathetic to his cause. With these funds the
Fiend has created a small, tight unit of experienced and dedicated terrorists.
It goes without saying that the Fiend and his friends are high on the wanted
list of almost every police and military organization there is. The SARO is
particularly keen on getting its hands on him, after he blew up a SARO ship
recently. This embarrassment is something SARO wants to rectify as soon as
possible.

But the Fiend is not only cunning, but also paranoid. He never stays long in any
one place and even his closest associates are often in the dark about his
whereabouts or future plans. This extreme paranoia has served the Fiend well in
his on-going crusade against the pharmaceutical industry and other "totalitarian
institutes with no regard for human life" as he himself phrases it. Even if he's
a hunted man the Fiend still finds time to plan and execute his terrorist acts
that have made him famous. The Fiend is indiscriminating in the selection of his
targets, a clear sign that he holds few customs or creeds dear, something that
his criticizers have pointed out as a serious contradiction â€“ on one hand he
claims to be fighting against those that hold human life in contempt, while on
the other he frequently kills innocent bystanders in his attacks.

The fact that many of his attacks have killed or injured civilian bystanders,
often children, means that he is highly unpopular almost everywhere and that few
people will be sorry when his reign of terrorism comes to an end.
