# Gallente-Caldari War: The War Drones On

![Gallente-Caldari War: The War Drones On](images/caldariwar.jpg)

The bitter ferocity of the first stages of the war fueled the animosity and ill
will between the two races, killing all hope for peace for years to come. The
Caldari were getting stronger by the day as the refugees from Caldari Prime
started to settle in, while the Gallenteans were still in a state of confusion
following the fall of the fascist regime. The Caldari mounted a series of raids
into Federation territory, which the Gallenteans in their slow and cumbersome
ships were ill equipped to meet. But the might of the Federation was too much
for the Caldari to overcome and their raids, even if successful military wise,
had little impact beside draining the morale of the Gallenteans and bolstering
their own.

After a while the Caldari agenda became clear - they were willing to sign peace
if the Federation would return Caldari Prime and acknowledge the newly formed
Caldari state. But the Gallenteans couldn't agree to these demands for two
reasons: one, they were loath to admit a sovereign state into their midst; close
to their own home planet and were unwilling to uproot the sizeable Gallente
population on Caldari Prime, and second, the Gallenteans were not alone in the
Federation and if they allowed the Caldari to leave the Intakis and Mannars,
both of them starting to flex their economical and political muscles, might be
tempted to follow, thus throwing the whole society into turmoil. The Gallenteans
were forced to regard the Caldari as rebels and renegades and had to try to get
them back into the Federation, with good or evil.

For a while the Federation could do little else than watch the Caldari play
havoc upon the Gallentean fleet and the outermost provinces of the Federation.
The Caldari were getting ever bolder and every few months they seemed to have a
new and improved version of their nimble solo-fighters, which the Federation had
few answers against. To many Gallenteans it seemed inevitable that, unless their
demands were met, the Caldari would sooner or later overrun the whole
Federation. Everything the Gallenteans tried failed - their attempts for their
own solo-fighters were utter failure and stationary defenses such as mines and
sentry guns could only go so far in protecting space facilities for long. It
seemed like every time the Gallenteans came up with something sleek and speedy
and powerful the Caldari would soon respond with something even sleeker and more
powerful.

Finally, the solution evolved from the stationary defenses of all things. The
Gallenteans had employed mines for a long time with so-so results, but with the
massive advances in robotics technology taking place at this time the mines were
slowly transformed into a far deadlier object. The first drones were little more
than mines with proximity detonators and some limited moving capabilities, but
soon they had advanced to the level that a single drone almost rivaled a
solo-fighter's capabilities. The fact that drones were many times cheaper to
build than fighters and didn't require a highly trained pilot meant that the
days of the solo-fighters were numbered. The drones reversed the tide of the war
and now the Caldari were scrambling to come up with a solution against these new
weapons. It didn't take them that long - they simply upgraded their fighters a
bit, added some shields and extra weapons and called the new vessels frigates.
Some extra crew was also needed at first, but then the Caldari obtained capsule
technology from the Jovians some years later and could again reduce the crew to
one on most frigates.

The climatic battle of the war was fought near the system of Iyen-Oursta. Both
sides - the Gallenteans with their drones and Caldari with their new frigates -
were confident of victory and thus were willing to throw everything they had
into the battle. The result was the second-largest space battle ever fought in
the world of New Eden, second only to the Battle of Vak-Atioth fought during the
Amarr-Jove War. The Battle of Iyen-Oursta raged for a whole day. During a lapse
in the action after almost 15 hour constant fighting the Caldari withdrew in a
stately fashion, leaving the battlefield to the Gallenteans. The Gallenteans
claimed victory as the side retaining the battlefield, but the Caldari also
claimed victory as they had inflicted considerably more losses and causalities
on the Gallenteans than they'd received themselves. In any case, the battle gave
neither side the decisive victory they'd sought and it was becoming obvious to
everyone that such a victory would never be scored.

With frigates the Caldari managed the stem the tide of the advancing Federation
and before long stalemate again ensued. Slowly, normal life returned for most
people, the war became a distant thunderstorm that only occasionally rattled the
populace as a whole. Neither side was willing to offer peace for fear of it
being taken as a sign of weakness, but the new generation growing up on both
sides was willing to sacrifice itself for such an uncertain cause, so the war
slowly faded into small-scale border skirmishes and raids. The matter was
finally settled when CONCORD, at that point a relatively new entity that had yet
to truly establish itself, decided that the war, posing as it did a threat to
New Eden's diplomatic and economic stability, had gone on long enough. Sensing
tiredness on both sides after the Iyen-Oursta battle, they used the opportunity
to open peace talks between the two obstinate adversaries and were, within six
months, able to broker a ceasefire agreement acceptable to both sides. The
Federation acknowledged the Caldari state as sovereign and both sides were to
retain their original outposts and settlements, except for Caldari Prime, which
remained under Federation control.
