# Soft Passage




<p>It was a chilly day on
the station, late in the evening. Fall was closing in, and while the station's atmospheric
generators compensated for it to some small degree, the air was still kept cold
and crisp. Wind machines kept currents running and made for buttoned-up coats,
scarves and hats. People needed seasons, to mark the passage of time.</p>

<p>The young couple, Satyan
and Treta, were walking hand in hand down the station's busiest shopping street,
window-shopping for daydreams. Both of them had good jobs, he in health-goods marketing,
spearheading the new transparent ad campaigns after the recent viral marketing
fiasco, and she in accounting, where she specialized in passenger monitoring
and toll calculations. Their wedding was still a few weeks away.</p>

<p>They stopped in front
of a travel agency and looked at the ads, which were scrolling through on large
flat screens set in the windows. Motion sensors registered their presence, and
the scrollthrough automatically slowed. On one side of the screen was a narrow
band that showed a spectrum of color from dark blue to dark red; the color
represented the kind of excitement and adventure you wanted from your trip. Satyan
waved a hand at the spectrum's red end, but Treta immediately waved hers a
little further down.</p>

<p>"Killjoy," Satyan
said.</p>

<p>"Nutcase," Treta
replied, and kissed him.</p>

<p> The screen began flipping through images of
various trips, on both space stations and planets. "The planetside ones
are so expensive," Satyan said.</p>

<p>"And overblown,
too," Treta said. "Look at this one. A <u>safari</u> on Luminaire? </p>

<p>Satyan glanced at it
and smiled. "Actually, I went on those quite a bit when I was younger.
Which planet is it?" He noticed Treta's expression. "Uh, I mean, who
wants to spend their honeymoon surrounded by wild animals?"</p>

Treta coughed.


<p>"Apart from each
other, I mean," Satyan said.</p>

Treta grinned.


<p>Satyan continued, "There's
another one. It's ..." He peered at it. "Seriously? Stay in an old
Amarrian <em>palace</em> for a week?"</p>

<p>"My kind of life.
Can we even afford this, though?" Treta said.</p>

<p>"If we could, I
wouldn't go anyway."</p>

<p>"So no partying and
no frippery. Halfway between."</p>

<p>"Perfect," Satyan
said and kissed her.</p>

<p>"I wonder what
things will be like after that."</p>

<p>"Same as
before," Satyan said. "Only better."</p>

<p>She smiled, then
looked at a nearby store window and pointed. "Oh, look! They've got food
mixers. This would be perfect for you when you're starting your day."</p>

<p>Satyan grunted
something in reply.</p>

<p>"Oh, come
on," she said, dragging him over to the window. "You've got no morning
appetite and can't drink milk, and you <em>know</em>
the doc said you have to eat breakfast. It's either this or gruel." </p>

<p>"Sweetie," Satyan
said, "these things are so loud they could wake the dead."</p>

<p>"That's nice,
dear. Look, they sell all sorts of different things! Alarm chronometers, more
mixers, equilateral bread slicers, EMP cookers, washing microbots, oh, <em>self-cleaning</em> coffee brewers, ion stoves,
holoviewers, stasis-cooled cheese plates, electric pillows... and look, they
even expect wooden furniture."</p>

<p>"That's hideously
expensive."</p>

<p>"It's antique
style, too," Treta said.</p>

<p>"So will we be if
we buy it. The debts'll age me prematurely."</p>

<p>"Now now,"
she said. "The-... what's that?"</p>

<p>Something small and
mechanical buzzed passed them, followed by a little human tornado that bumped
into Treta on its way past. Satyan reached down and grabbed hold of the kid's
shirt. "Hey, hey, hey! Where you running to, little man?"</p>

<p>The kid gave him a
startled look, then smiled from ear to ear. "That's my drone," he
said and pointed at the mechanical thing. It was indeed a small toy drone, and
was currently encircling a trashcan nearby.</p>

<p>"What's your
name?" Satyan said.</p>

"Dappy."


<p>"Well, Dappy, you
should know it's not polite to run into people. What do we say if we do
that?"</p>

<p>"Sorry," Dappy
said and grinned.</p>

<p>"Not to me, silly,"
Satyan said, but couldn't help grinning back. "The lady here."</p>

<p>Dappy turned to her
and said, "Sorry, lady," still grinning.</p>

<p>Treta nodded at him,
then looked at Satyan and silently mouthed <em>Lady</em>?</p>

<p>"Can you help
me?" the kid said and pointed towards the drone, which was still flying
around the trashcan. "I set it too fast."</p>

<p>Treta, aching a little
from where the kid had bumped into her, whispered to Satyan, "I never even
saw him coming."</p>

<p>Satyan whispered back,
"Well, he's here now, I suppose," and set about trying to catch the
boy's toy drone. The machine eluded his first couple of tries, but he
eventually got a hold of it, tuned its speed down and handed it back to the
kid, saying, "Here. And don't run so much. Relax. Enjoy life."</p>

<p>"Thanks,"
the kid said, and immediately ran off.</p>

<p>Satyan shook his head.
From here he stood he happened to glance at a nearby window, one that Treta
couldn't see yet, and noticed a store that was selling cell phones. Each 'cell'
was in fact a station, and phone prices were effectively determined by whether
your phone would work only within the solar system, or could be used to contact
people in other systems as well. Intra-system talk would have crisp, clear
communication, but as soon as you left the solar system, all talk got laggy,
distorted and muddled, not to mention far more expensive. Once you were out of
the region, that was it; silence fell. Only the capsuleers had access to better
technology.</p>

<p>"Might need something
like that," Satyan said.</p>

<p>Treta walked over to
him, looked in the window, then shook her head. "My turn now. It's too
expensive."</p>

<p>"Come on. What if
I get posted off-station?"</p>

<p>"Then you can
send me recordings. Or use the combooths like everyone else."</p>

"Still-"


<p>Treta turned on him. "It's
too damn expensive, Satyan. If we don't have enough money for the furniture and
things, we don't have it for this, either."</p>

<p>"Hey, come
on."</p>

<p>"No, you come on.
I'm tired of you scuttling anything that I want to get, then not applying the
same standards to yourself." She threw up her arms. "But hey, what do
I know? Maybe it'd be good to have a cell, so's I can keep an eye on you when
you're away."</p>

<p>"Oh, right,"
Satyan said. "Because I can't be trusted. I'd jump into bed with the next
woman I saw."</p>

<p>"Well, what do I
know? For all I know you could be doing it with Sari right now."</p>

<p>"Hah," Satyan
said. "Not in a million years."</p>

<p>"Hey! That's my
best friend you're talking about."</p>

<p>Satyan put his arms
around Treta and kissed her on the forehead. "I'm sorry, baby. I would
definitely sleep with Sari if you weren't around. Feel better now?"</p>

<p>She plonked him on the
nose, then kissed it. "Silly man." Then she broke free of his grip
and walked on, oblivious of the future.</p>

<p>Satyan remained,
staring at the cell phones in the windows, not seeing them. Then he followed,
grasped for Treta's hand and took firm hold of it, and they continued on.</p>

<p align="center">***</p>

<p>This time it was Treta's
attention that was caught by something, across the street. She crossed it, and Satyan
followed.</p>

<p>"Look," she
said, pointing to a window. It was a baby clothing store. Satyan's eyes widened
and he took an exaggerated step backwards, his hands in front of him like he
were being held up at gunpoint.</p>

<p>Treta laughed.
"Get over here," she said, and looked in the window. The display
included everything from jumpsuits to shoes. The latter were at a discount, a
sign said, because of a manufacturing error.</p>

<p>Satyan, who felt
uncomfortable even looking at the things, decided to at least take part in the
conversation. "Well, they're cheap."</p>

<p>"Mmm. I don't
like them too much," Treta said. "They might fall apart at least
notice." She looked closer. "It almost looks like they've been worn
before."</p>

<p>"Sweetie, they're
baby shoes, for sale," Satyan said, "and were probably never
worn."</p>

<p>She shivered, and
moved on.</p>

<p>As Satyan followed, he
noticed that the air had in fact gotten even colder. It would probably be time
to head home soon. He found a street vendor nearby, selling food and hot drinks,
and led Treta there. The greasy smell of fried fat didn't much raise their
appetites, so they bought hot drinks instead; Satyan a warm soup, Treta a
frothy brew. For no real reason, Satyan reached out with his free hand and put
it around Treta's waist, hugging her tight. Treta returned the gesture. Behind
them, the baby shoes stood still on the shelves, unmoved.</p>

<p>After they were done,
they tossed the plastic cups into the recycle bin next to the vendor's cart,
and walked on. The next store was an insurance booth, and Satyan made a crack
about having one right next to a fast food vendor.</p>

<p>Treta thought it over
while looking at the premiums they offered, then said, "Well ... I'm not
sure I want to say that something like this is too expensive. But still..."</p>

<p>"Yeah," Satyan
said. "I know what you mean." And they put it out of their minds,
like a blackened match tossed into a dark corner.</p>

<p>After they'd walked
apace, Satyan added, "Actually, the furniture might not be a bad
idea."</p>

<p>Treta stared at him.
"Are you serious?"</p>

<p>"And some
curtains." He saw her look. "Well, why not? If we plan to make a
home, why not <em>make</em> a home? I don't
mind the idea of coming back home to a warm place, familiar smells, lights on
and a fireplace on the screen. And you."</p>

<p>She grasped his hand a
little harder.</p>

<p>"The world
doesn't always have to spin around," he said.</p>

<p>"No, it doesn't. Nor
we with it," she said.</p>

<p>They came to a park,
and saw the wind blow through the trees. The leaves were falling off in droves,
leaving the branches bare and alone. The trees stood there like sentinels; from
the viewpoint of the leaves, and the seeds nesting in the ground, they'd
undoubtedly always been there, and would always be.</p>

<p>They walked on until
they came to another travel agency, and on unspoken agreement they both slowed
the walk. Satyan idly waved his hand in front of the sensors, close to the low,
blue end. Now, with the nippy winds of fall blowing down every crack and
crevice, and the trees shorn of their leaves and seeds, a sedate, relaxed vacation
on some warm planet didn't seem half so bad.</p>

<p>They looked at each
other, turned and went into the park. Night was falling, and it was time to
head home. Hand in hand, they walked down the final trails together. The leaves
obscured their path until at last they were gone.</p>  



                            
                        
