# Most Ancient


It was late in the evening  on the ship repair station. At first, the only noticeable movement came from the  semiautomated cleaning and safety checking of the walkers, massive ambulatory  robots that looked like detached cranes' legs.

One figure moved slowly  through the place. Most Ancient, or Jonathan Vesper as he was known to the employment  records and nobody else, was doing his very last rounds. Today was the last day  of a very long career; tomorrow he would retire.

He was a scrawny  white-haired man with a long beard and a calm manner. His speech was measured  at all times, and his actions stemmed from a deep confidence in himself and his  place in the world. He was meticulous to the point of obsession when it came to  cleanliness and order - simplification was his spoken motto - and while he was  always a willing teacher, he was also a frustrating one, harping on old  theories and unwilling to accept diverging points of view. It was this  combination of didacticism and senescence that had earned him his nickname.

His pride and joy was  the Row of Wings: A series of ship parts, most of them flat or somehow  wing-shaped, on permanent display throughout the repair station. They were set  up in a row that snaked its way through the station's main section, and ranged  in size from the height of a short man up to the height of a two-story  building. He cleaned it every week, without fail, walking through these  darkened halls in solitude.

In past times these  parts had been used for education, both as reference pieces for rookies and as  test housings for new module variations. Each ship part was held in a frame that  consisted of a pair of massive clamps on the floor and a wire strung between  the part and the nearest wall. When someone wanted to retrieve a part for  inspection and experiments, they'd have a walker come over and clasp the  selected part with massive robot arms. Then, one of the desk jockeys would flip  a switch on an old, outsized control board, the clamps holding the part in  place would loosen, the wire would drop from the wall, and the walker would be  able to carry the part wherever it was needed.

Those times were  drawing to a close, and the parts were now due to be removed. They were part of  a fading age where the mechanics had gone in for a more hands-on approach,  whereas these days everyone seemed to favor simulations that were long on error  margins but short on the human feel for design. When Most Ancient left, the Row  of Wings would retire with him.

He didn't mind. People  thought he was attached to the Row, and there had been some half-hearted  attempts from the older members of the crew to get it turned into a permanent  installation, but he had begged off.

He had never told  anyone, but what he really was attached to was closure. The end of a lesson; the  ordering of a toolbox; the completion of a module; the final moment where a  used part was taken in for the last time and turned into scraps; all of these gave  him far more satisfaction than indefinite memorials. His greatest joy in life's  unspoken poem was placing the period on the end of its line, one sharp swipe of  the pen to complete its intricate pattern. The Row was the culmination of  years' worth of work and effort, not just a monument to his longevity but a  reminder of where he'd come from and what he'd gone through to get there. A  warning, as much as a celebration. Looking at it and imagining that it would be  there forever, frankly unnerved him.

Everyone else had now  left the garage, but he was still there, ordering his things and preparing for tomorrow's  sad celebration. Every now and then he fancied he heard something creak in the  distance, but he chalked it up to his old ears and to the walkers finishing off  their checks.

Like so many  mechanics, Most Ancient kept a bunch of small mechanical items in his drawers,  both for future reference and remembrance of things past. Many of these items  were solid enough that they could be stood up on end. As he pulled open the largest  drawer, he heard a click, and was faced with a strange setup: Someone had  carefully arranged everything inside in a domino fashion. They stood up one  against the other, precariously balanced, and the instant he'd opened the  drawer, they toppled, cascading over one another.

There was nothing else  in the drawer, no note, no extraneous item, nothing to indicate the who or why.

Most Ancient closed  the drawer, carefully put away the rest of his things, and looked around. There  was nobody to be seen.

Again, he thought he  heard something creaking. He couldn't pinpoint it, but felt that the sound had  come from the approximate location of his Row of Wings.

People often thought  of him as simple, he knew, and he couldn't disagree. But his simplicity had  been earned through years of experience both good and bad. It wasn't the result  of being too stupid to understand complexity, he felt, but of being smart or  insightful enough to understand it so well that he could simplify it. As a  result, he knew what was important and what wasn't, and led his life  accordingly. He also knew how people functioned, and how far they would go to  do evil things.

Not everyone agreed  with his world view, or with his authority. There had been clashes,  particularly with some of the younger workers. Recently these clashes had grown  more frequent, and more bitter; it was quite clear that certain individuals had  started to resent him and the role he played in this company. But as they were  too young and immature to truly stand up against him, they attacked him  circuitously, like little dogs nipping at the heels of larger prey. They made  snide remarks. They laughed. They left trash near his desk; they disordered his  things when he wasn't around. One man in particular, Zian, had started acting quite  belligerently towards him, and now that Most Ancient thought about it, he  realized that Zian had been very vocal about the retirement day, in particular  on what a momentous occasion it would be.

What Zian and the rest  of them apparently didn't realize was that he'd been young once, too.

And now he was sure  that the creaks he'd heard earlier had come from the fastenings that held the  Row of Parts in place.

You could say this for  the young folks: They knew their equipment. Those endless simulations they  liked so much could be used to calculate, to unbelievably small margins of  error, the stress necessary to break an item. So if you, say, snuck into a  repair shop and borrowed one of the automated Straker saws for a while - those  pinpoint precision metal saws with the wafer-thin blades - you could, if you  fed it the right data, make it saw into a piece of metal with such accuracy  that you could in fact determine ahead of time when and with what kind of  pressure the metal would break.

So if you knew, say,  that this piece of metal held up an item of a specific weight - say, for  instance, an old ship wing - and if you had a strong inkling it would be put  under the pressure of an old, wrinkled hand at a certain time of night, cleaning  it for the last and final time, you could saw at its fastenings just enough to  make the wing topple over at the touch.

Now that he  concentrated, as hard as he could, Most Ancient fashioned he could hear tiny,  tiny creaks from other support parts as well.

Dominoes. Falling  down.

He grinned.

As inconspicuously as  he could, he scanned the ceilings. There were security cameras set in every  corner, as per standard regulations. Some of them had wider-focus lenses that  covered entire sections of the shop, while others autofocused on differing  types of movement. There were a couple focused on him now, as they should be,  but the instant that a smaller object moved, a subsection of the  movement-sensitive cameras should follow it.

He picked up a wrench  and held it in his hand as he walked. After a couple of steps he pretended to  stumble, and dropped the wrench out of his hand, throwing it in front of him  apace. Most of the smaller movement-sensitive cameras immediately followed the  wrench, but he noticed two that remained firmly on him. Someone was watching.

Most Ancient picked up  the wrench and swiftly walked out of the repair shop and into the armory  section, where all the unused equipment was located. Earlier in the day he'd  noticed someone depositing an armor rig can - full of tarry liquid necessary  for the installation and testing of the rig pumps - and headed directly for it,  holding up the wrench. Once he got to the rig cabinet, he again pretended to  stumble, falling onto his feet in front of the cabinet and grabbing on to its  shelves for support. As he pulled himself up, he snuck a small can of rigging  fluid into his pocket, then visibly and shakily deposited the wrench onto the  pile of equipment on top of the cabinet. His audience, he was sure, was having  a right laugh at the tottering old fool.

They could laugh all  they liked, as far as he was concerned. If he couldn't have his simplicity, he  would have his closure.

Next he headed over to  the desk of Zian, who he knew, without a shadow of a doubt, was one of the  people responsible for this whole thing. Aside from being incredibly full of  himself, mouthy and impolite to everyone, Zian was quite a bauble collector.  His desk was his pride and joy, decorated with a mass of tiny certificates, a  bunch of collectibles and art pieces, and all manner of other strange and  emotionally valuable things. Most of them were firmly fastened onto the desk in  some manner; their owner was so paranoid that he assumed everyone must be  interested in stealing his possessions.

Most Ancient didn't  intend to steal a thing. If anything, he wanted to keep the man's work environment  safe. And since they clearly thought he was a stupid old man, he might as well  play the role to the full.

He reached into his  pocket and uncapped the armor rig container, turned so that the cameras  wouldn't pick up what he was doing, then pulled out the bottle and let it drop  to the floor. There was a clank, at which he immediately said, "What's  that?" He allowed himself to look around a few times, just to let the  bottle empty itself properly. Then he looked down, said loudly, "Oh my  gosh, a puddle of armor rigging right by this desk! I'd better clean it  up."

He knelt, stared at  the puddle for a bit, then stood again and added in the same loud voice,  "But I can't, not when it's under this desk. I have to move the darn thing  first. The puddle's not going anywhere."

He stalked back into  the repair shop, over to the walker section. One of his past accomplishments  was a decade spent in the metal saddle, and he'd kept up with the advances in  walker technology. He got into one, started it up, and walked back to the desk  section. The section was separated from the main garage area by a removable  partition; way too heavy for a man, but easy for a walker to pick up and put  aside. He reached in, picked up Zian's desk, and carried it out of the desk  section. Once it was out, he didn't put it down; instead, he walked over to the  final ship wing in the sequence, the biggest on, and put the desk down right  beside it.

As late sleepers had  found out time and again, the distance between the station's living quarters and  the repair shop was deceptively long. Even at a mad run, you had no hope of  making it from one point to another in less than ten minutes. Especially if you  had been, say, relaxing at home, eating snacks and drinking booze and laughing  at some silly old coot bumbling around in the shop.

Most Ancient took the  walker back to its storage place, powered it down and got out. Then he added,  loudly, "First things first. Before I clean the puddle, I better make sure  my old row of ship wings is clean. Otherwise I might forget, old man like  me."

He walked over to the  cafeteria, noting with much amusement that some of the parts holding up the row  of wings were definitely creaking. Clearly, the persons responsible had timed  this well.

Once he got to the  first part, the small wing standing in the cafeteria, he looked around him for  the last time. He noticed that one of the motion-sensitive cameras, one of the  ones that had followed him even when he dropped the wrench, was now swiveling  back and forth, focusing between the desk and him, the desk and him, in  increasingly desperate motions.

He pulled a piece of  cloth out of his pocket and began to wipe off the ship part. As he did so, he  leaned on the wing just a tad.

There was a crack.

Most Ancient thought  of closure, of that one sharp swipe.

He leaned a little  harder, and with a screech of breaking metal, the ship wing toppled. It fell  onto the next part, whose support parts also gave way from the impact of  several tons, and fell onto the <em>next</em> part, which gave way too, until the entire row was cascading down like  monstrous dominoes. Most Ancient heard twanging noises that he knew were from  support wires snapping, and as he heard the final utter and demolishing crash,  as if from a ten-ton ship part utterly disintegrating a prized wooden desk  along with everything on it, he fashioned that he could also hear a faint  scream in the distance, slowly Dopplering closer.

He closed his eyes and  smiled.



                            
                        
