# Black Mountain: The Room



	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Much as I appreciate your enthusiasm, you need to 
	stop this nonsense. If you walk up to someone, if you distract them for a 
	second and then manage to take them down, you kill them on the spot. That's 
	what you do. Okay? If you absolutely have to leave a personal mark, you find 
	something lying around and shove it into their eyesocket. What you do <i>not</i> 
	do is let them get up and make a run for it before throwing a knife into 
	their backs. Let's be professional about this. And stop crying."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea, standing in a crouch and breathing heavily, 
	looked up at him and said, "I'm not crying."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"That ain't sweat."

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Little runt kneed me in the groin. It sets off 
	the tear ducts."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Told you she had balls!" a teammate shouted to 
	them.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Alad leaned his head back and rubbed his eyes. 
	"Alright!" he shouted. "Session over, thanks, go away, people! Dinner's at 
	seven." On command, the holograms in the area faded out, shields blinked 
	into oblivion, and various pieces of cover, hurdle and barricade collapsed 
	into themselves and slid silently down into slots on the floor.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Alad extended a hand to Draea, who accepted it and 
	stood up. One of their victims was lying on a bunch of black paper-maché 
	rocks nearby, snoring.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"I'm getting a little tired of this, Alad," she 
	said.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Are you, dear?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"No, actually, scratch that. I'm getting so 
	utterly sick of it that I could vomit blood. If I have to go through one 
	more stupid exercise with one more stupid fake victim where I push a rubber 
	pin against their gut and tell them they're dead, I swear on all that is 
	holy, I'm going to shove this pretend knife through my own eye until it 
	rattles inside my skull, let the last beats of my dying heart carry it 
	through my body, and <i>pull it out my ass</i>."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>She sighed. "Also, the martial arts sessions are 
	stupid. Nobody does small-joint manipulation anymore."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"I'm glad you're opinionated." He caught her 
	glimpse. "No, seriously, I am. It means you care. And I'm glad that you 
	care, because you're being promoted."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
She stared at him. "What, just like that?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"You've been on countless recon missions, 
	completely unsimulated, protecting our interests in all sorts of situations. 
	You've shown a remarkable ability to stay alive and to ensure that others 
	... well, don't. And your IPM index-</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"My what?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Int-Per-Mem, dear, don't interrupt. It shows 
	quite amazing numbers through the entire scale, mental and physical. <i>I'd</i> 
	be scared if I knew you were on my heels."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>The victim got up, yawned and started walking 
	away. "There's another group coming in," Alad said to him. "Where are you 
	going, Placx?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"For a smoke," Placx said without slowing.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>Alad watched him go, then turned back to Draea. 
	"Follow me."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>They walked through the compound, passing the 
	exercise rooms, the altered states chambers and the torture vaults. Each was 
	designed to test the subject's physical, mental and spiritual tolerance, to 
	find their breaking points and how they would react when pushed to that 
	level, and even, for the torture vaults, what they'd do to others. A team 
	member prone to murder everyone around him was as much a liability as one 
	who'd go catatonic.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>They moved down to a lower floor, passed through 
	corridors Draea rarely traversed, and at last came to an unremarkable door 
	that she had never even noticed before. She stood in front of it, but it 
	didn't open.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Special access only, dear," Alad said.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea raised an eyebrow. There were no visible 
	scanners or locking mechanisms in front of the door. Nevertheless, when Alad 
	stood in front of it, the door hummed softly and opened. The space inside 
	was almost pitch black, with only one cone of light shining down brightly on 
	a metal chair a few steps into the room.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Don't worry," Alad said. "You've already passed."

	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea shrugged, walked in and sat on the chair. 
	Behind her, the door closed, and what little outside light had been flowing 
	in was cut off.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>She sensed someone nearby, but she did not feel 
	threatened.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>A voice, issuing from a speaker high above, said, 
	"You are alone in this room."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"You lie," she said. It was not a rebuke; it was a 
	statement of fact.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>The voice, sounding pleased, continued, "You have 
	now been promoted to task force operative."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>The voice fell silent for a moment, in quiet 
	expectancy. Draea said, "... thanks?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Do you understand what it is that the operatives 
	do?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Killing people is a given," Draea said. "The rest 
	doesn't really matter, does it?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"That depends," the voice said. "Before we 
	continue, you should know that you will never be allowed to speak of this to 
	anyone not on your own task force. You do, however, need to know a few 
	things if you're to do a decent job for us. Does the name Book of Emptiness 
	tell you anything?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Not really. Sounds Amarrian, but that's about 
	it."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"It was. Supposedly a lost holy book, one that 
	would bring immediate ascension to the reader. It is now the chosen codename 
	for a machine that we're after. Set at low power it has the capacity to heal 
	some mild psychological issues. On high, it has the power to brainwash 
	people."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Ah, so you want me to get it for you."

	<p>
	</p>
"No. We want you to destroy it."

	<p>
	</p>
"You do?"

	<p>
	</p>
"Yes."

	<p>
	</p>
"Are you serious?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"It is a non-negotiable part of our arrangement. 
	We have spies out right now, various scouting forces. Once we get a positive 
	lead, we'll send out one of the task forces."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"So why me?" Draea asked.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>The voice replied, "You have excelled at what you 
	do. You've gotten this far and managed not to die, and our nanomachinery 
	tests prove that you have a natural aversion to the Book's effects. Aside 
	from this curious obsession of yours to hit people at range with ridiculous 
	weapons, you are one of our absolute top performers. Not only that, but in 
	your previous life you showed a remarkable acumen for flying under the 
	radar. We need agents who can work on the edge without falling off or 
	bragging to everyone who's watching."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Do I at least get to know who you people are?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>The voice laughed. "If you want, though it won't 
	make much of a difference either way. We're a special section of the Society 
	of Conscious Thought. We're operating on behalf of the Hyperconsciousness 
	agenda." The voice paused again, and when Draea registered no expression, it 
	continued, "There is a final test. We know you're capable of committing 
	atrocious acts both in cold blood and in the heat of battle."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Damn straight," Draea said.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"But it's one thing to do it against an enemy you 
	dislike, and quite another to do it against someone who hasn't done anything 
	to you."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Another light turned on, shining a bright cone 
	down a little way from Draea. It illuminated a small metal table on which 
	lay a knife with a very long and narrow blade - a knife useable for both 
	slitting throats and stabbing hearts - and a woman in a chair, tied and 
	strapped in, wearing only underwear and a bra. The straps were so tight and 
	numerous that her body and head were absolutely immobile, and both her 
	throat and her wrists were exposed, the latter strapped to the chair's 
	handles. She was gagged, and there were streaks of tears and snot running 
	down her face.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"I like how you let her wear a bra," Draea said. 
	"Otherwise this'd just be so undignified."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Personally, I wanted to strap Placx in there, but 
	they overruled me," a different voice said from overhead.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
Draea looked up and grinned. "Alad?" she said.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"I swear, that man's played victim for the last 
	time. We just cannot have people slouching around here.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Should I do it, Alad?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Do anything you like, dear. But do it to the 
	hilt."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"If we're all ready here-" the other voice said.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Oh yes, by all means. Let's treat this with the 
	reverence it deserves," Alad said with exaggerated seriousness, then went 
	quiet. After a few seconds he added, "No pressure."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea slowly walked to the woman and the table, 
	where she picked up the knife and weighed it in her hand.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"What's her name?" she asked.

	<p>
	</p>
"Irrelevant," the nameless voice replied.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"That's for me to decide," Draea said. "And 
	besides, since you're so concerned with cold blood, I hardly think it'd make 
	things any easier for me if I knew her name."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>The voice said, "Still-", but Alad cut in with 
	"Inibjer."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Thanks," Draea said. She looked Inibjer in the 
	eye and said, "If it helps, I've done this before."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>She tossed the knife in the air a couple of times, 
	then leaned down to Inibjer and whispered, "I'm not going to kill you. Don't 
	worry. I'm going to walk away slowly, and they'll have to find someone else 
	to do the job. I might even be able to get help, put a stop to this."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Tears started running down Inibjer's eyes, and 
	Draea said, "Be strong." Despite the restraints, Inibjer tried to nod, but 
	all that came out was a tremor.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea slowly walked away, then, in one swift 
	motion, she turned, raised the knife and threw it with massive force. It 
	whizzed through the air and sliced just past Inibjer's head, grazing her 
	right temple and bouncing off the wall beyond.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
There was a sigh from above.

	<p>
	</p>
<p>Frowning, Draea walked past Inibjer and picked up 
	the knife, then stalked back to her, said, "Sorry, dear. I lied," and leaned 
	over the prone victim. Inibjer trembled and shivered for a moment, then 
	gurgled and went slack, maroon rivulets trailing down her arms and chest.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>Draea smiled, stroked Inibjer's hair and cheek, 
	then absent-mindedly wiped her hand on her shirt. Behind her, the outside 
	door slid open with a metallic hum. She turned and walked towards it, but 
	hesitated at the exit. "Alad?" she said.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Yes?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"What would've happened if I'd refused to kill 
	her?"</p>
	<p>
	</p>
<p>"Oh, we'd have filled the chamber with poisonous 
	gas."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
"Are you serious?"

	<p>
	</p>
<p>"What, you think I'd want to go in there and do it 
	personally? You've got a <i>knife</i>, you psychopath."</p>
	<p>
	</p>
She left the chamber, laughing loudly.





<br><br>

<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=601512">this link</a>.</i>

</p>


                            
                        
