# Black Mountain: The First Half




<p>
</p>
<p>Nale was sitting on his bed in the ship quarters, 
fully dressed, looking at the thing in his hand.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It was a metal device the size of his fist, curved and 
with a little opaque sphere set in the middle. The sphere had a red sheen and 
showed a faint triangular halo. As he rolled it in one direction, it turned 
yellow, then orange, blue, indigo and purple. He rolled it back to red and found 
that while it couldn't roll far in the other direction, forcing the sphere a 
little would turn the red to green; though when he let go, it shifted back to 
red.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It was a catalyst for the Book. The machine could not 
be set off unless someone nearby activated this device. Otherwise, the Book would remain 
completely inert, and supposedly appeared quite innocuous. It was also the first 
piece of actual proof Nale had been given that confirmed the veracity of their 
mission, and while he had been happy in the past to heedlessly go along with his 
directives, he was very grateful that ops had seen fit to give him one of these 
items. Not because he might have to use it - that eventuality seemed ugly and 
enticing, all at once - but because it gave him an anchor, a counterpoint to the 
weirdness that surrounded this whole mess. The more he had found out about the 
hunt, the less real it all seemed. This catalyst would keep him going.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale held it up to the light, watching the 
refractions. The catalyst's surface had an oily sheen, so that the light danced 
through the spectrum of colors, but the sphere set in its middle drank in all 
light like a black ocean and gave nothing out in return. Nale thought of how 
amazing it was, that these small things might effect such big changes in the 
people around them, and he mused that it was really quite the same with his team 
and the rescue missions they'd done. Oftentimes he had wished that his own team, 
and the Sisters at large, could make more of a difference, but then - he rolled 
the sphere back and forth - they'd just have to make do with what they had.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Since its discovery, this little piece of equipment 
had become the very basis of their mission. It came from a set of several 
catalysts that had just recently surfaced and, according to the Sisters' 
analysis, gave final proof that the Book not only existed but had also surfaced 
outside Jove space. Nale and everyone else on the team had been given clear 
instructions that if they were to retrieve the Book they were allowed to set it 
off in an emergency, but not unless absolutely necessary, and preferably not 
amongst large groups of people. The Book supposedly had an area of effect, and 
they must only ever turn it up to blue levels, which would be enough to disable 
most people. Higher levels would permanently mark anyone unlucky enough to be in 
the vicinity.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They themselves were safe from the Book's effects, 
something apparently to do with a combination of genetic makeup, personal 
strength, and simple immunity to having their brains scrambled for peace. The 
Book, Nale had been told, would reach into people's minds and forcibly eliminate 
warlike, angry and hateful tendencies, and would probably lobotomize the poor 
bastards in the process if set on too high a level. But for those who'd managed 
to get through the Sisters' regimen, these feelings were so faint to begin with, 
so little a part of their personality, that their removal wouldn't cause any 
permanent damage. The machine might have <i>some</i> effect, the Sisters 
administrators had grudgingly admitted, but it shouldn't be anything to worry 
about.</p>
<p>
</p>
Roll the sphere, roll the sphere, red to green.

<p>
</p>
<p>There was a knock on the door, and Shiqra, a teammate 
of Nale's, walked in without waiting for a response. Shiqra was a thin man, full 
of jittery energy than that made him look like his skin had him trapped. He wore 
tight clothing and didn't smile so much as implicitly grin, and had the brusque 
manner of someone who'd done more than his share of high-risk rescue missions. 
He'd been one of the first to get recruited.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Before Nale could utter a word, Shiqra said, "We've 
got a lead. Solid one, this time. Need to head off right now before Empire gets 
a word of it."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>'Empire' was their codeword for everyone who wasn't a 
Sister, and applied particularly to some of the more sinister forces of the four 
Empires, each of which, while still in the dark, was slowly becoming aware that 
the Sisters were after something.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Where is it?" Nale asked.

<p>
</p>
"With the Angels," Shiqra said and left the room.

<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>One journey later, they were at an Angel station, and 
the noise was deafening. They were hardly even out of the docking bays and into 
the marketing area proper before they were assailed by sensory overload. 
Roadside vendors shouted at them from every direction; booster peddlers walked 
around dragging locked plexiglas carts, their chemical wares clattering inside; 
and sweaty, stinking Drop maniacs, with their characteristic soaked rags bound 
over their temples, sat on the curbs and screamed at things that weren't really 
there. Condensation from body heat covered the walls, and the Angel banners that 
hung on every wall were limp and dark with wet grime. The clamor was giving Nale 
a headache.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Strictly speaking it wasn't necessary for the Angels 
to allow these huge marketing bazaars on their stations - they were a tightly 
run criminal organization whose business deals tended to be of a subtler nature 
- but they'd long since discovered the benefits of networking and of providing 
social hubs. Some of their best recruits were reportedly merchants who had come 
to an Angel station in search of profits, found they liked the atmosphere, and 
decided to get involved. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It made sense that these people be the first to dredge 
up the Book. Aside from their entrepreneurial spirit they were the prime 
harvesters of Jove technology, were spread around most of known space, and were 
notoriously effective when it came to stealing other people's things. They were 
wanderers, too, and had never been content merely sit at the Serpentis' heels; 
always exploring, always pushing further.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale spotted a few Angel representatives, who nodded 
genially to them. Angel officials routinely kept up a highly visible presence on 
station, but stayed calm and unafraid to chat with the civilians. It was clear 
that this was a place where people knew each other, and where business was 
expected to tick on without undue hassle. Nale's worries about standing out in 
the crowd had proved unfounded, too: There was such a mix of people here that 
even with their Sisters badges on their arms, Nale and his team didn't attract 
the slightest bit of unwanted attention. He was relieved, and hoped it would 
stay that way.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The badges were the standard Sisters wear, worn by 
members in war-zones to show neutrality and protect from harm. They probably 
weren't really that necessary as far as protection was concerned; people didn't 
usually get bothered at these stations for no reason, and those nice Angel 
officials wouldn't hesitate to crack skulls if any trouble arose. But what the 
badges brought as well was special dispensation. Sisters were often allowed with 
very little explanation to pass into places closed to others, and nobody liked 
to question or delay them too much. After all, the skin they were saving might 
one day be your own.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale and his team were searching for a particular 
vendor, and trying to do it without asking any questions, but so far they'd had 
no luck. Two of Nale's other teammates, Berkhes and a big, hulking man called 
Monas, were lagging behind, looking around and, in Nale's mind, taking a little 
too long to get to where they were going. They were five on the task force; 
Zetyn, their tech guy, was back on the ship, while Shiqra was lagging even 
further behind.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra suddenly started walking faster, passing 
Berkhes and Monas and reaching Nale. "I've got it," he said to Nale.</p>
<p>
</p>
"You know where the guy is?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Yeah, just figured it out. Come on, let's get 
moving."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They walked down several streets away from the main 
square, towards the fancier areas of the station. Shiqra, Nale and Monas led the 
group, but Berkhes lagged a little behind, looking thoughtful. Nale didn't 
comment; Berkhes was an old friend who'd shared innumerable missions, and was as 
dependable as any man he'd ever known. If he needed to work something out, he'd 
be given the space.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>At last they came to a house that shone with affluence 
even by the standards of others around it. Its entrance was guarded by Angel 
officials who betrayed none of the warmth of their brethren down by the market, 
and the team was barred entrance.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And there it might have ended, in more ways than one, 
if someone hadn't come out of the house, muttering curses. It was a female Angel 
captain, and Nale immediately approached her.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Excuse me?" he said.

<p>
</p>
"Yes?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm Nale, Sisters of EVE," he said, offering a hand 
which she shook.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm Hona, Guardian Angels, special forces. What do 
you need?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"We desperately need an audience with this merchant. 
Is there any way you could help us?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Help is usually done through deals. What could you 
offer me and my team?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Well, uh, if you get a papercut I could probably 
bandage it," Nale said.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Hona stared at him for a while, then asked, "Is Arak 
expecting you?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"No," Nale admitted.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Is he going to be happy about whatever offer you have 
for him?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"I honestly have no idea."

<p>
</p>
<p>She stared at him a little longer, then said, "Well, 
you're Sisters and I've got sympathy for the cause. And plus, it'll probably 
piss Arak off, which is all for the good as far as I'm concerned. So I'll let 
you in under my authority."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Is it going to get you into trouble?" Nale asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Doesn't matter. My task force has been 
decommissioned. I was looking for some work for us, or at least a little help in 
finding a person I know who's gone missing, but apparently neither are worth 
Arak's time. I'll have to find the guy myself, clearly, then start flying 
aimlessly through space. Maybe you'll have better luck than me."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She spoke to one of the security guards, then waved 
the Sisters in and walked off.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They entered the house. Arak the merchant resided on 
the second story, in a massive Caldari-esque chamber. Pieces of onyx ochre and 
splinters of cooled gelidus ice were carefully placed, offering half an 
aesthetic view and half an undertone of religious symbolism. Multihued globes of 
cytoserocin, a gas cloud that constantly revolved and coalesced, lay in 
porcelain bowls designed for sacrifices to the gods. Nale looked at a celadon 
sphere, and its purplish shade gave him a shiver.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>One wall was completely overtaken by a sand waterfall 
whose quiet hiss felt soothing to the ear. In the air, laser birds flew around, 
3D images projected by hidden vidcasters. It was a remarkably nice office, and 
the whole effect was only slightly spoiled by the giant Quafe cooler behind 
Arak's desk. It was full of Red Quafe, a special version with selected rogue 
ingredients, and the reason became apparent as soon as the team entered. Arak, 
overweight and clad in figure-hiding robes, sprung up from his desk, paced to 
them and shook their hands. His brow glistened. He waved his hands at the birds. 
"Their flight is symbolic, too, the patterns. They're casting good luck on this 
room, good business luck."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale followed his lead and sat in a chair by the desk. 
"We understand you had a recent shipment come in with some strange things, 
including an inert block of shaped metal. We'd like to buy it."</p>
<p>
</p>
"What, sight unseen?" Arak said.

<p>
</p>
"Yes."

<p>
</p>
"Sure."

<p>
</p>
<p>Nale's team looked at one another. This was a little 
too easy.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Uh, have you used it?" Nale asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Nope, I haven't. It just got in, doesn't seem to do 
much, design isn't familiar, but it just looks like some old, broken-down 
machine and I can't imagine what anyone would want with it apart from antiques 
interest." The words came out in a gabble. Nale noticed two open RQ bottles on 
the desk.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Do you know what it is?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Oh sure, I've got some idea, but I'll leave it to the 
experts to decide."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale cast a glance at Berkhes, who surreptitiously 
rolled his eyes. Neither of them believed Arak had any idea at all.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Do you have it here?" Nale asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"No, it's at my warehouse." Arak leaned forward on his 
desk, nudging the RQ bottles. "You know, I don't usually inquire on these 
things, but I'm curious as to why the Sisters would be after something like 
this."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale sat back in his chair. "We hear it might have 
some healing properties, but we need to research it first."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You people have remarkably good spies, then, since I 
hadn't even started to put out word that I had the machine."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"We're quite happy getting here first, thanks," 
Berkhes said, and flashed him a small smile. "Could we see it, please?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Oh, it isn't here. I don't store any of my 
merchandise on-site, so I'll need to send a couple of people with you to a 
warehouse elsewhere"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm sure we can find our own way," Shiqra said in an 
impatient tone. "Regarding payment-"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Arak held up a beringed hand. "No worries, I trust the 
Sisters. We can discuss it when you get back. Here's the address."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He keyed in a combination on his console. The laser 
birds settled on his desk, where they melted into words and numbers on the desk 
surface. "I'd like to give you the location inside the warehouse, but can't, 
sorry. Policy. My men will go with you and pull out the right box."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They paid their respects and exited the building, 
setting off towards the warehouse in tow with Arak's enforcers. As they walked 
down the street, Berkhes whispered to Nale, "I'm not at all sure I trust Shiqra. 
He's been acting a little nervy lately. When we were at the market I think I saw 
him get a message on a transmitter, something that certainly wasn't meant for 
the rest of us. And he keeps fiddling with something in his pocket that ... 
well," Berkhes added with a little grin, "I really hope isn't what I think it 
is."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He was about to say more, but Shiqra walked up to 
them, smiled and said, "I'll catch up. I need to send a quick message to main 
base about where we're going and what our plans are." Shiqra dropped back, and 
Nale looked to Berkhes, who raised one eyebrow but said nothing.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Once they got to the warehouse the merchant's crew let 
them in. They entered the building, which was so massive that Nale couldn't see 
to its end in the gloomy light. It was full to the rafters with stuff, stacked 
on ten-floor scaffoldings and surrounded by metal walkers with giant, 
piston-pumped arms.</p>
<p>
</p>
"The guy really is a collector," Berkhes said.

<p>
</p>
<p>They were led deep into the warehouse. At last the 
merchant's men stopped, and keyed in numbers on a console. An automated machine 
slid along the rails of the scaffolding, clamped on to a small box, pulled it 
out and lowered it to the ground.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale and his companions looked at one another, all of 
them sharing the thought that this contained looked much too small to hold the 
Book.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale and Berkhes walked up to the box. "I've got a bad 
feeling about this," Berkhes said, and Nale nodded. One of the guards walked up, 
knelt in front of the box and unlocked it, then stepped back a respectable 
distance.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale took a look around the room, taking in his 
teammembers' faces. Berkhes looked fairly calm, having apparently arrived at the 
same conclusion that Nale had. Zetyn was feigning an unimpressed look, but his 
excitement easily shone through. Shiqra just looked dyspeptic.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale turned back to the container. He opened it, 
looked in and felt like his entire body had deflated, a mixture of loosened 
nerves and disappointment.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>In the box, which was far too big for its contents, 
was a catalyst. It was larger the one Nale had been given, the size of his 
entire forearm instead of his fist, but otherwise it was exactly the same.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale sighed and turned to Berkhes, intending to ask 
him what to do now, but stopped short when he saw the man's face.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Berkhes stood stock still, staring out at empty air as 
if he'd seen infinity. Then his eyes bulged, he stuttered something, and blood 
began to spurt in great gouts from his neck.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale and his companions immediately went for the 
nearest shelter, all of them veterans of a myriad firefights, all of them filing 
away their burgeoning grief for later. The merchant's men, slower and 
inexperienced, stood their ground, and moments later Nale heard a telltale 
swoosh that he'd only half-registered while staring into the box. Both men 
grimaced and clamped their hands to their necks. They half-managed to reach for 
their guns before collapsing on the floor, spouting blood.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>In the deepening shadows, Nale spied a team of people 
moving towards them. Some guy in combat gear marched right up to the box without 
sparing the Sisters a look. He lifted it and looked inside, and seemed about to 
say something when there was a bang, and the front of the man's chest bloomed 
red. He fell to the ground, dropping the box and sending the catalyst tumbling 
out of it.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Everyone around saw that it was not the Book itself. 
There was a hushed silence, followed by a barely audible "... <i>shit</i>!" 
somewhere in the dark, and the sounds of gunfire and running. The Sisters 
remained inert and completely quiet, Nale included, until he felt the cold steel 
of a pistol laid against the back of his neck.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>A voice said, "What you're looking for has already 
left." The pistol was withdrawn, and there was the sound of running feet.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale stood very still, listening to the receding 
gunfire. He remembered that voice. It belonged to an Angel captain called Hona.</p>




<br><br>

<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=610048">this link</a>.</i>

</p>


                            
                        
