# Black Mountain: Of a Sentence



<p>
</p>
<p>Draea felt rather uncomfortable. Her team was making 
its way to the warehouse area on an Angel station, and at any moment she 
expected to see a familiar face, someone who'd known someone she'd killed. Not 
that she probably needed to worry much, considering the company she was in, but 
it paid to be careful.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She looked around at her teammates. There was Krezek 
the tech-sadist, Falau the brawler, Yorlas the bounty hunter and Polok the 
chem-tech warfare dude. Krezek was an ex-sniper with a gift for electronics and 
infiltration who liked torturing his subjects without ever being in their 
presence. Falau was a survivor of a million little wars, ranging from barroom 
brawls to rush-squads on conquerable stations, and had, by his own account, had 
an eager hand in starting many of them. Yorlas was a considerably more careful 
opponent whose activities, as with Krezek's, had included sniping, along with 
various manners of assassination both individual and en masse. His only real 
goal in life was to terminate as many people as possible before his own end of 
times, and while he had a stated interest in experimenting with methods, he drew 
his pleasure from the successful taking of a life and the individual marking of 
his kills, and not, as Falau did, in the bloody preamble to death. Polok, a 
rather more personable individual whom Draea liked quite a bit, was heavily into 
chemistry and the myriad alterations of the human body it could bring forth. He 
had a preference for being called the Plague Doctor, and had stuck to it right 
until he told Draea about it, at which point she laughed so hard at him that she 
nearly collapsed on the floor. He never mentioned it again.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Supposedly the Book wouldn't work on them. They were 
too far gone, the violence and darkness too ingrained in the very fabric in 
their personality, for the Book to do anything more than give them a bad 
headache. If the device ever got into the wrong hands, Draea thought, they would 
be the first ones put against the wall.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They'd all studied the plans, although some of the 
data, such as where Arak kept his merchandise, had only been revealed to them 
just as they were getting off the ship. Some information came through Yorlas, 
who apparently had friends in the area. All Draea's team needed to do now was 
get to the warehouse, and get inside it. Krezek had vowed to take care of the 
last part.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>As they were walking towards the station's storage 
areas, Polok, whose stalker instincts matched Yorlas's, turned to Draea and 
said, "One of the Angels is following us."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Are you sure?"

<p>
</p>
"Yes." Polok described him in detail.

<p>
</p>
<p>Draea thought hard, and eventually an old splinter of 
a memory dislodged itself. A duo of Angels had appeared on her colony a while 
back, recruiting miners. She'd monitored their progress, then gone dark and 
caught one of them alone and unawares. He'd been a stocky man, and she'd later 
sprained a back muscle shoving his corpse into the incinerator. The other Angel, 
unaware of her part in the murder, had raised a fuss and even called in some 
people of his own to investigate, but the corps had backed the cops and she'd 
stayed clean. Misplaced faith was a wonderful thing.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She called her team mates closer, and told them of all 
this. They grinned at each other, and Yorlas said, "Can't have him screw this 
up. Let's fade out. Look for the bullet."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The group split in two. Draea and Polok continued 
walking, but slowed their pace to an amble, and changed their route to darker 
streets. Krezek, Falau and Yorlas faded into the shadows.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea worried that the guy would have contacted other 
Angels, but Polok assured her they were safe. The man might have sent some 
message, but if he really had reported them to the active forces in the area, 
they'd long since have been scooped up and thrown into quarters. They kept 
looking around while talking, and eventually spotted a likely-looking side 
street between two warehouses. Everyone in the group had murderer instincts that 
they'd learned to trust implicitly, and those included finding the best spot to 
do something nasty, so it was no surprise when they came closer and saw a bullet 
lying at the entrance.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They walked into the alley, Draea subtly kicking the 
bullet away, and the Angel followed shortly after. He was closing in on them, 
Draea realized, and it would only be a few breaths before he engaged. The street 
was dark and deep.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Don't turn around," Polok said to her, and she 
didn't, but she heard the sounds: There were the faintest of steps from the 
Angel trying to sneak closer, then a swoosh in the air, a gasp, the briefest of 
scuffles, and a muffled thump, followed by a gurgle and something that sounded 
like a wet piece of paper being torn up.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They stopped, and now she turned around, eager to 
inspect someone else's handiwork. She walked up to the corpse and gave it a 
professional's look. She wasn't so much interested in the stab wounds on his 
chest, or the gaping hole in his groin - everyone had their peccadilloes - but 
she was intrigued by the rim of shredded skin on one side of his throat, which 
matched neither a garrote pattern nor the serrated edge of a blade. She looked 
at Yorlas, who was busy cleaning off his knife.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He looked back at her, shrugged, unslung a gun that 
hung in a strap from his shoulders and handed it to her, saying only, "Missed. 
Aim needs adjusting."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She inspected the gun. It was a pressurized shotgun 
with six slanted choke tubes arranged radially. Each tube was lined with a 
magnetizing agent that helped keep its shots in line when they exited the 
barrels, making for longer range. The clips were twofold, one capsule of 
supercompressed gas and another capsule holding the ammunition. The magnetizing 
agent would only work on tiny metal pellets, but in Draea's view, that kind of 
ammo shouldn't have torn up the side of the Angel's throat like it had. Not 
unless the pellets had special, non-standard features.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"This ammo you have," she said to Yorlas, 
"Change-state, by any chance?"</p>
<p>
</p>
He nodded.

<p>
</p>
"Activation on high-speed contact?"

<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas nodded again. "With skin," he said, and handed 
her a clip from his belt.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She inspected it, then gripped both ends tight and 
pushed in. She felt the internal safety dislodge, and one end of the clip became 
loose. She reached for one of the dead man's hands and pulled it close, removed 
the clip top and poured a handful of ammo into his cooling palm. They were 
little spherical pellets, and as soon as they touched his skin, several tiny, 
angled blades shot out from their surface, the blades curved in on the centre 
like the slanted path of a meteor falling to earth.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"And when they go into someone's skin?" she asked 
Yorlas.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"They spin," he said. "Work through his veins. Make a 
mess."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"So you could hit anyone anywhere on their body with 
this, and..."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"And the orbs will go in, make their way through the 
bloodstream and pulp everything they touch," Polok said, walking up to them. 
"Just one gets into you and you're in trouble. Close to an artery and you're 
dead, but even if it's just in your toes, they'll still cause pain so agonizing 
it'll drop you on the spot."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He picked up one of the silver pellets lying on top of 
the victim's palm, and looked at its blades. "These are regular issue. They got 
heat-seeking ones as well. Bronze-colored, I think. Nasty little things."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>There was a beep that startled Draea far more than it 
should have. Yorlas pulled out a communicator, and Polok said, "Not again. 
That's, what, the third time you pull out that thing?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas, ignoring him, said, "My contact on station. 
Says the Sisters are going to the warehouse. We should hurry." He got the gun 
back from Draea and said, "I fire the first shot."</p>
<p>
</p>
Falau said, "The hell you do. Next one's mine."

<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas clapped the gun and said, "I need to test the 
aim. Problem?"</p>
<p>
</p>
Falau got in his way and said, "Might be."

<p>
</p>
<p>Polok stared at the two of them, then said, "By the 
gods ... all right. All right. Hey!"</p>
<p>
</p>
They looked at him.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Yorlas gets the next shot, because we'll need to 
stalk these people, but once we're safe and good, Falau can have all the fun he 
wants. Happy?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The two men looked at one another, then back at him 
and nodded.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"All right," Polok said, and turned to Yorlas. "At 
least turn off that communicator of yours. I'm tired of having you spill our 
plans to everyone on the station."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They set off, Polok muttering to Draea, "You know that 
execution test to get on the team, the one we did right at the end? Yorlas 
thought of that. Idiot."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You've got nothing to compensate for. Why on earth 
are you bitching about him?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"He just rubs me the wrong way."

<p>
</p>
"Polok, you've killed at least four hundred people."

<p>
</p>
"Your point?"

<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Once at the warehouse, Krezek took to the fore and did 
his magic, though not without mumbling comments to empty air. "Guns, yeah, fine. 
Gimme a circuit board any day of the week. About time I got something to do 
here."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea, standing nearest to him and feeling impatient, 
said, "Want me to tell Yorlas of that attitude?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Not on your life."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Then hurry it up. And add an automated opener for the 
doors, too, in case we need to make a getaway."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Sure. Want them to explode?"

<p>
</p>
"No, thanks, just make them open."

<p>
</p>
"Roger."

<p>
</p>
<p>He rose, keyed in a combination on the lock, and the 
doors slid open. The team walked in.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas's informer had not given them the precise 
location of the Book, so they decided to wait for the Sisters to show up, and to 
shadow them. The team took its positions, deep enough in the shadows that they 
wouldn't be spotted, but with access to walking paths so they could follow the 
progression of anyone walking through the warehouse. Draea made sure she was in 
visual range of everyone else, and settled in to wait. There were other 
entrances to this place, but she expected the Sisters to come in through the 
main one.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It wasn't long before the warehouse doors opened again 
and the Sisters came in, flanked by two guards. Draea's team stayed on them 
until they got to the box's location, and watched as they called it down from 
the scaffolds. Draea noticed that while two Sisters walked up to the box, and 
two more looked on curiously, one the Sisters stayed very definitely at the 
back, looking around a bit. She grinned in the darkness. However Yorlas had 
managed this, he'd earned his place on the team.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She pulled out her gun and saw the other team members 
do the same. A few paces away, Yorlas took aim. She watched as he relaxed his 
shoulders, took a breath and held it, and leaned a little into the shot. He 
closed one eye, and fired.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>One of the Sisters guys started spouting blood from 
his throat. The other Sisters faded from view, and before she could react, Falau 
had sauntered up to the box, picked it up, and started to inspect its contents. 
Draea was about to get up and go to him when there was a bang, and Falau 
crumpled to the ground. He dropped the box as his body fell, and she saw the 
catalyst roll out of it. People not her own started moving in the shadows.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea exclaimed, "Shit!" and ducked just as something 
was fired at her head. There was a mad scramble as her team tried to rush toward 
the doors, provide cover fire for each other, and not get shot, all at once. 
Once they got in view of the exit, Draea saw Krezek manically working on his 
mobile interface to activate the doors, and she realized that as soon as they 
went through their silhouettes would be easy targets. Polok caught up with her, 
and as they ran she hissed at him, "Lay down interference!"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He reached for the bandolier on his shoulder and 
pulled off a couple of multiburst grenades, set one to thermal and another to 
electromagnetic, and tossed them. The thermal one bounced towards the attackers 
who were following them, flared up and sprayed a thin drizzle all around that 
immediately caught fire. The chemical wouldn't burn the surfaces it coated up, 
and only flared up for a few moments, so Draea hoped the warehouse's fire 
extinguishing system wouldn't immediately start dropping anti-inflammatory 
powder. She risked a look back and thought she saw the hunters stopped in their 
tracks for a few precious seconds.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The EM grenade, set to visible-light focus, blasted 
off behind them. It skewed light and caused such massive refraction that aiming 
at a target became next to impossible, like trying to find the one true 
reflection in a shattered mirror. It was possible to set these things to 
near-lethal levels, but apparently Polok had taken the wise stance that blinding 
everyone in the room wouldn't be good procedure. Shots were fired, but none of 
Draea's people got hit, and at last they escaped through the doors, blinking 
frantically in the fake sunlight to rid their optic nerves of the grenade's 
refracted remnants, and quickly made their way down the street.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They were back on the ship. The team was setting up 
their gear and preparing for launch. Draea, in her quarters, was rapidly 
planning their next move. After they'd undocked from the station, blessedly 
unnoticed, and set off in a random direction, she filed several questions to her 
Society contacts. Some were about mission minutiae, and had Draea thanking the 
gods for her mining colony experience and the knowledge of ship statements and 
docking logs it entailed. Others were about certain individuals on the mission, 
based on a dark intuition that had begun growing in Draea's mind. She put a high 
priority on them, knowing that the team would soon have to plan its next move.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Her answers arrived shortly after. They commended her 
for her insight, and gave her an unofficial promotion to team leader. They also 
included some very interesting information on her mission and personnel 
concerns, along with suggestions on how to deal with both.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea drew up a flight route and sent it to the main 
console onboard her ship. Afterwards, she left her quarters and walked through 
the ship, eventually making her way to a little-used maintenance area. In there 
she went to a repair parts cabin and, from way at the back, removed a small, 
circular item with a red, opaque button at the center. She returned with it to 
her quarters, sent off a quick message to base, and received an immediate reply. 
The item in her hand lit up and blinked twice. She pressed firmly on its small 
button. The item lit briefly once more, then went dark again. It was now coded 
to her fingerprint.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea sat there for a little while, then pocketed the 
disc, sent out a call for people to meet her on the bridge, and headed off. On 
her way there, almost on instinct, she stopped by one of the hi-tech weapons 
cabinets and retrieved another disc, this one with a number of sockets and 
wirings on its surface.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Once they were all settled on the bridge, Draea spoke 
up. "First off, the Society has made me the de facto leader of this group, if 
there ever was any doubt. Problems?"</p>
<p>
</p>
The assembled group shook their heads.

<p>
</p>
"Good. We're taking off."

<p>
</p>
"Back to base?" Polok asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Far from it. We've found the Book, for real this 
time," Draea replied. "And we're off to get it."</p>





<br><br>
 
<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=620853">this link</a>.</i>
 
</p>


                            
                        
