# A Man of Peace



<p>
</p>
<p>Nale's team was heading towards their ship, 
collectively wondering what just happened and what to do next, when they were 
met by Hona and a team of Angels. She stopped them and said, "You're coming with 
me."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They balked at it, but she said, "We lost the 
attackers but we know where they're headed, and whatever you people are after, 
it'll be there, too," and started walking.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They looked at one another, then started to follow 
her.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>On the way, she explained to them, "The second we 
disengaged, I looked up the station logs. That piece you were inspecting came 
from a shipment brought in by one of our deep scouting teams, and it's part of a 
larger find. They were going to offload the entire thing here, but one of our 
military installations asked them to bring the other items in for closer 
inspection. They're on their way there now, but they'll be making a few stops on 
the way, so we can catch up with them if we hurry."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Look, far be it from me to criticize this plan, and 
thank you so much for getting us into the merchant's office and out of that 
shootout at the warehouse," Nale said, "but <i>who are you</i>?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"I'm the captain of a task force."

<p>
</p>
"... yes?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm also the one who can find whatever it is you're 
looking for, in exchange for some answers."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale shrugged, a difficult motion to make when one is 
walking fast. "All right. Lead on."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>A while later, they were onboard an Angel ship staffed 
by Hona's own hand-picked crew and heading towards the unknown. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Hona had told him she'd brought his team onboard for 
debriefing and to ensure she could keep an eye on him, and she had asked him 
several questions about the item they were after, expressing her worry that it 
was a weapon which could be used against her people. Nale had tried to reassure 
her while fending off the questions the best he could, saying only that it was a 
specialized type of healing device that only the Sisters could operate properly. 
Hona had ignored his own questions for the most part, and by the time each 
realized they weren't going to get what they wanted from the other, the 
atmosphere between them had grown chilled; Hona was outright angry, Nale merely 
frustrated and tired. Eventually she'd let it go at that and left him to his own 
devices.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He'd picked up some equipment from his own ship before 
leaving and was now playing with it in his new quarters, sitting on his bunk and 
tossing an inertial ball in the air. Every time he tossed it up it would 
accelerate and hit the ceiling with a bang, then drop down again into his hand. 
It reminded him of the training camp, when things had been simpler.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The inertial ball was a metal sphere with a rubbery 
varnish, of the same type they'd used back at the gym. Its technology was based 
on the same principle as the inertial modifiers that keep spaceships from 
tearing themselves apart when they accelerate or decelerate at the incredible 
speeds they reach. Its insides were composed of gravitronic mechanisms that made 
the ball, once thrown in a consistent direction, continue to accelerate, so that 
it would hit its target at a far greater velocity than it started with. Upon 
impact it would immediately decelerate at a rate dependant on its contact 
surface; the softer the hit, the harder its internal mechanism would reverse and 
try to lower its impact, which meant that the few extra milliseconds it took to 
push into a soft-skinned surface would make for a lesser blow than if it smashed 
against steel.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Eventually Hona banged on his door, then walked right 
in. "What on earth are you doing in here?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Waiting."

<p>
</p>
"Well, wait more silently."

<p>
</p>
<p>He stared at her, getting even grumpier, then made up 
his mind and got up from his bunk. "Are you busy?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"I'm making a tour of the ship," she said.

<p>
</p>
"That's a no, then. Good. You can help me practice."

<p>
</p>
"What? No. What are you talking about?"

<p>
</p>
<p>He held the inertial towards her. "Let's go find a 
corridor with solid-steel backing and you can toss this at me at high speed."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She opened her mouth to say something, stopped short, 
looked at the ball and then back up at him, smiled an evil smile and said, "All 
right. Follow me."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They made their way down to the bowels of the ship and 
found an empty storage corridor with a nice, thick steel wall on one end. They 
took places on either end of the corridor, Nale right in front of the wall.</p>
<p>
</p>
"So I just throw this at you?" Hona said.

<p>
</p>
"Pretty much."

<p>
</p>
"Any last requests?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"I'd prefer above-belt aim, but really, it's up to 
you."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She threw the ball at his head. It accelerated on the 
way but didn't hit him, and instead clanged off the wall behind him. He picked 
it up and tossed it to her underarm.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Does it have any settings?" she asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"There's two poles on it, one red, one green. Squeeze 
the ball twice, then hold down green to slow it down, red to speed it up. Press 
both simultaneously to turn it off for the space of one throw, hold them both 
down for a couple seconds and you turn it off altogether."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Red. Right." She pressed that one a few times, then 
threw the ball at Nale. It missed him again.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You know, we really are quite grateful you took us 
with you," he said as they kept on the exercise.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Not much choice," she responded.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Not to question your judgment, but how do you plan to 
end this?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"We'll get to the Angel transport ship first, while 
our real prey flitters around and shakes off imaginary tails. Then we hang back, 
keep a listen on the transport, and jump in once she attacks it. She wants 
what's on board, so she won't destroy the ship."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"All right." Nale considered more questions, and could 
only come up with, "So what's Angel life like?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Disciplined."

<p>
</p>
<p>He picked up the ball from a missed throw and tossed 
it back to her. "Really? I've met some of you guys and you always seemed more of 
a family."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She caught the ball, but didn't throw it again. "When 
did you meet Angels?" she asked.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"There was a massive industrial accident on one of 
your mining colonies a few months ago. A capsuleer launched missiles at it but 
thankfully didn't destroy the entire place. My team was doing some unrelated 
exercise in the area, and we were all called in. Sometimes we're the only ones 
who can cut through the politics and actually help people."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She sighed and gave a slight nod. "We're not the 
best-loved of factions."</p>
<p>
</p>
"You don't say."

<p>
</p>
<p>The ball whizzed at his groin, but he sidestepped it 
at the last minute, laughing.</p>
<p>
</p>
"How many did you save?" she asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Most of them. The missiles mostly blew up silos and 
processing plants that had already been vacated. But there was one framework 
collapse in a populated mine that left a lot of people broken or badly cut. We 
had to pull them out first, which has its own problems, but it all worked out. 
The only ones we left behind never had a chance. A dozen had been either cut in 
half or crushed to a pulp by falling girders well before we found their bodies. 
Hand getting tired?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She'd been holding the ball in one hand, idly waving 
it. She switched hands and gave a toss that bounced off a side wall, slowed and 
landed in Nale's open hand.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Nice try, but first surface it hits, it decelerates," 
he said, tossing it back. "So what are you doing here? You seem really intent on 
catching these guys."</p>
<p>
</p>
"I'm only really after one of them."

<p>
</p>
"Childhood friend?"

<p>
</p>
<p>She laughed, and threw the ball. It wasn't aimed at 
him, and hit the wall with a satisfying thunk.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"My team was tasked with finding out who's been 
killing our undercover recruitment agents," she said. "I was contacted by one of 
those agents earlier today."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Risen from the dead?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Watch it," she said. "He lost his recruiting partner 
recently, under strange circumstances, and he himself is probably dead now."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Strange circumstances?" he said, reminding himself 
that he didn't always have to try to be funny.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"They'd been recruiting on a mining colony. They were 
ambushed and attacked, and he escaped. We never even found the body of his 
partner, only some spatters of blood. The local militiae got involved and 
practically shut us out, too. The trail eventually grew cold and we were taken 
off the case with no luck in finding who did it. The survivor was reassigned, 
too, but he remembered everyone who was involved, and he had a particularly 
nasty feeling about one of the cops there. And right after you arrived he 
contacted me, saying that she was here, on my station."</p>
<p>
</p>
"She? Oh. That one."

<p>
</p>
<p>She gave him a look. "If it's escaped your notice, 
women sometimes do rise up the corporate ranks."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"If it's escaped your notice, I work for a faction 
that rather does imply the fact."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She nodded, and he added with a grin, "Though of 
course you're best left at home, watching the children and cooking, and serving 
us-OW!"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The ball finally hit its mark. She gloated at him as 
he gingerly rubbed his right side, then added, "Wait here," and left. She 
returned a little while later with a gun in her hand.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Uh..." Nale said.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Relax. Rubber bullets. They came with a shipment we 
got from Gallente merchants, and they're soddin' useless. Too much friction, too 
little weight. But you've been dodging the ball so easily that I might as well 
try this on you instead."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale stared at the gun for a while, then shrugged. 
"Okay. Tell me, at least, why you even let this woman undock. And that last toss 
is going to raise a welt, by the way."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You deserve it," she said, taking careful aim and 
firing. Nale managed not to be in the shot's way.</p>
<p>
</p>
"How do you <i>do</i> that?" she said, exasperated.

<p>
</p>
<p>"I've got a talent for taking things in, little 
details. The undocking?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I wanted to keep it under the radar. Those guys I saw 
at the warehouse weren't amateurs, and I'd prefer not to risk any more of my 
people than I have to." Another shot, another miss. "Besides, Angel ops'd be 
just as likely to arrest these people, both on-station and on-ship, and as soon 
as they discovered the woman was a damn cop they'd probably let her go. Empire 
goodwill, and all the rest."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Another shot, but this time it connected with Nale's 
thigh. As he hopped around,yowling, she said, "I can't have that. I want to 
catch these people and take them out. Right before we left there was a general 
notice that an Angel had been killed on-station, and the initial description 
matches the man who contacted me. Last I knew he'd been following that witch, so 
I pulled in my contacts, tracked her down, and found her in the process of 
tearing your group apart." Another shot, a near-hit. "These people deserve no 
sympathy and no mercy. I don't expect you to understand."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Why not?"

<p>
</p>
"You being a man of peace, and all."

<p>
</p>
<p>He sighed, and ran his hand through his hair. "Yeah. 
Right."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She rested the gun on her shoulder, leaned her head to 
one side and asked, "This <i>is</i> a peaceable mission you're on, right? This 
healing machine of yours and all."</p>
<p>
</p>
"It's supposed to be," he said.

<p>
</p>
"Supposed?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Well, it's ... this machine, it can be dangerous. 
We're supposedly going after it because we want to prevent it from falling into 
the hands of people who'd misuse it."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Who are these people?"

<p>
</p>
"My superiors say the Sansha."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Sansha? Nale, I've met them, and I've also met the 
people they sometimes hire; skittish, frightened men with a terrible darkness 
about them. The ones at the warehouse were not Sansha agents."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Yeah. I know. The Sansha rumors were probably spread 
back at our base to distract us from the real goals of the mission."</p>
<p>
</p>
"So you're being lied to."

<p>
</p>
"Everyone is lied to."

<p>
</p>
"Oh, come on. That's simplistic pessimism."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Is it?" A cold glint came into his eye. "When you're 
sitting hip-deep in blood on a mining colony, surrounded by wreckage from some 
capsuleer's missile, and cradling in your arms a boy who's lost his legs and 
can't even feel it because he's so deep in shock, do you tell him he's going to 
die? Or that he's going to be fine?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"That's an extreme example-"

<p>
</p>
<p>"So what? It happens all the time. The more you know, 
the less you want to know. Can you honestly say that you're a better person now 
that someone you know has been killed? All that evil which surrounds us, does it 
change anyone it touches for the good? Even if we do manage to catch up with the 
people presumably responsible for all those murders you mentioned, and even if 
we do manage to wrest the machine from them and you end up putting a bullet into 
their heads, is that going to make your life any better than it was back when 
you didn't know about any of this? This burning sense of guilt, shame and regret 
over not having been able to prevent something from happening, is it really 
preferable to just being unaware and blissful? Sometimes we need people who know 
what's happening and who handle it without excuse and without sharing it with 
the rest of us."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Strange words coming from a Sister."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Nobody halfway sane does this job," he said with a 
sigh. "It's rewarding, but it gets to you."</p>
<p>
</p>
"No kidding. So why join?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Because it's right. It's the only thing that makes 
sense." He leaned against the wall. "Look, I didn't so much join as get 
recruited. But I believe in the cause, and I believe that just as man can be 
cruel to man, he can also be kind. Yes, sometimes we lie, or cheat, or hurt one 
another. Sometimes we have to deceive. It doesn't mean we're unworthy of our 
existence, and it certainly doesn't mean that a person can only be either a 
saint or a sinner. What makes you into a good person isn't the endless purity of 
your actions, it's their sum total, and if you can rise above your own mistakes 
and make something decent come of your life, you've cheated death. The marks you 
left on this world will outlast you, their echoes will affect other people who 
will then carry on the work you started, however small, and when you finally 
come to look into that cold blackness of eternity, you'll know that you will 
never truly die."</p>
<p>
</p>
"I'm impressed," she said.

<p>
</p>
"It's nothing really deep," he said.

<p>
</p>
<p>"No, not that. I don't think you inhaled even once 
during that speech."</p>
<p>
</p>
He stared at her, then burst into laughter.

<p>
</p>
<p>"So you think you can change the world?" she asked, a 
little smile creeping into her expression.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I don't know. We all hope to, I suppose. I'd be happy 
if I could just dodge those damn shots properly."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Must be hard for a leader, to think so much."

<p>
</p>
"Am I the leader?" he said.

<p>
</p>
<p>"The others follow you. If you hadn't noticed, it 
probably makes you a natural. But you always find ways to torture yourself. 
Every mistake becomes a damnation of your abilities, and every failure something 
that must be corrected."</p>
<p>
</p>
"You think so?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Trust me on this," she said. "Besides, why else would 
you keep obsessively testing yourself? It's your one failing, the thing you've 
latched on to, and deep inside you believe that if you could just get this one 
thing right, you'd feel more at ease with the rest of your life."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale looked at the ceiling, then closed this eyes. "I 
thought I was supposed to be the one with all the serenity and answers."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Leave it to a real woman to think things through," 
Hona said. "They're called Sisters for a <i>reason</i>, you know."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He grinned, then furrowed his brow. "It's just ... we 
so have to get this right. Not only because we're clearly risking our lives here 
- I don't care about that, which I know sounds strange, but we truly have 
accepted our lives and their impending ends-"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You're talking to an Angel captain. I understand, 
believe me, I do."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"-But it's the task we've been given. The Sisters 
trusted me with this, and that matters to me. The machine has great potential, 
I'm sure, but that's not mine to think about. All I'm concerned with is keeping 
it out of the hands of the wrong people."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"And the Sisters are the only right people?" she 
asked.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Gods, I hope so. Because I can't think of anyone 
else. I need to find the Book, and I need to take it into my care, and I need to 
do it before that woman does. With any luck and grace, I will, and everyone will 
be safe."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She looked at him for a long time, then said, "I hope 
you're right."</p>
<p>
</p>
He sighed. "So do I."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Not about the machine," she said, shaking her head 
and holstering the gun. "About yourself."</p>



<br><br>
 
<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=629874">this link</a>.</i>
 
</p>
 



                            
                        
