# Black Mountain: Pushing Towards Bliss



<p>"How're you feeling?" Hona asked. She had just entered 
Nale's cabin, and was sitting alongside him on the bunk."</p>
<p>
</p>
Nale rubbed his temples. "Feeling fine."

<p>
</p>
"You don't look it."

<p>
</p>
"A lot of things have changed. It's tiring."

<p>
</p>
She turned to him. "I'm not blaming you, you know."

<p>
</p>
"I know."

<p>
</p>
"About my entire crew being turned to vegetables."

<p>
</p>
"I know."

<p>
</p>
<p>"I should be, but they knew the risk, same as me. All 
that matters now is to stop her."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Yeah."

<p>
</p>
"But I still want to know-"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Because I didn't realize her people would be immune, 
too. If I had, I'd never have let you or your team board that ship. I didn't 
imagine in a million years they would set off the Book. I thought they were 
thugs." He ran a hand through his greasy hair.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Guilt?" she asked, before regretting it.

<p>
</p>
"Tired," he simply said.

<p>
</p>
"Could you tell-"

<p>
</p>
<p>"It's made by the Jove. They wanted to counteract the 
Jovian Disease, that immense sadness which kills them. But it didn't help, and 
all it did was brainwash people. At lower levels you'll be left happy, calm and 
without much drive to do any harm. Higher levels, well, you've seen those."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Can-"

<p>
</p>
"Yes."

<p>
</p>
<p>She got angry at that. "Cut that out. How do you even 
know what I was going to say?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He looked at her with eyes that were far too much at 
ease. "I can."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Oh really? Can you see what I'm thinking, too?"

<p>
</p>
"Yes."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Fine. Fine, mister psychic. What number am I thinking 
of?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Two."

<p>
</p>
She stared at him.

<p>
</p>
<p>"It's in your eyes, and the way you sit," he said. "I 
can see everything now. Everything."</p>
<p>
</p>
She kept staring at him. "That machine changed you."

<p>
</p>
"Yes."

<p>
</p>
"The others, too?"

<p>
</p>
"No, just me. At least on my own team."

<p>
</p>
"Why you?"

<p>
</p>
<p>He sighed and looked up at the ceiling. "My trainers 
would probably say I showed immense aptitude. I beat everyone else in the tests 
they laid for us. I'm a bit of a prodigy, it turns out. But that's not it."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Then what is it?"

<p>
</p>
"I'm dying."

<p>
</p>
<p>Her jaw dropped. She started to say something, but he 
interrupted.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Don't. Please. It's chronic, but causes no pain or 
discomfort. One day my brain will simply tell my body to stop. It's a condition 
far older than this mission of ours, and it should've killed me ages ago, since 
exertion is known to bring it on, but apparently I'm tougher than I thought." He 
inspected his nails, searching for the words. "Anyway, ever since I found out I 
was going to die, I saw things in a different light. It's weird, really. I sat 
in a small room, listening to a voice tell me I was a dead man, and it felt like 
I was the only thing in this world left untouched. Yes, I was the one who 
changed, I was the one who found out that my own personal sphere of existence 
had been irrevocably altered. But I was still the same person, or at least I 
felt like I was. The world itself, everything that is not me, <i>that's</i> what
<span lang="EN-GB">changed."<p>
</p>
<p>
</p>
"Or your perception of it."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Precisely. And I can't tell you how liberating it 
was. All those old worries of the world, they vanished. The rules had changed, 
altered, gone even. Ever since I got the diagnosis I could feel my mind casting 
off its weights. But even so, something remained. It's like being told the 
answer to a puzzle, but not having figured it out yourself. You can see why it 
is the way it is, but you can't intuitively understand it, and thus it feels 
like you haven't got the answer at all."</p>
<p>
</p>
"I know what you mean," she said.

<p>
</p>
<p>"And then, as luck would have it, the Sisters swooped 
in and carried me away. And for a while, it helped, but it still wasn't enough. 
It gave me purpose, gave me an answer, but I still hadn't figured out the 
question." He got up, picked up a backpack and said, "Let's go for a walk."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They left his quarters and headed towards the cargo 
bays.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You're different," she said, in the tone of one who's 
earned the right to say a thing like that.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Yes. It's the Book."

<p>
</p>
"How did the Book change things?" she asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"It opened my eyes to the larger picture. It explained 
the answer and the question, at long last. Even after joining the Sisters I'd 
still been playing the same game, with all the same worries and doubts, right 
until the encounter on that ship. <font size="3">Y</font>ou can't do that and 
honestly expect to make a change. What happened showed me that people can be 
freed from fears and terrors. They can be made to understand everything."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She furrowed her brow, then asked him, "You're not 
seriously suggesting what I think you are?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Well, I can't rightly free someone the same way that 
it happened to me, through a chronic illness leading to death. That would be a 
horrible thing to do. So we can use the Book instead."</p>
<p>
</p>
"That <i>is</i> horrible."

<p>
</p>
<p>"It's what my people were planning to do all along. I 
just didn't realize it until I thought the whole thing through. You're a 
captain, you've been in your share of fights. Have you never had a moment where 
you wished you could make everyone stop? Where you were so utterly tired of 
wading through blood that you wanted to grab the world by the throat and scream 
in its face?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Of course I have. So you want to lobotomize them?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"No. At lower levels the machine simply erases warlike 
thoughts. There's probably a subsection of the human race it won't affect - the 
people we're after are apparently immune, for instance - but for most people, 
they'll be granted peace and serenity. They'll be a little sluggish, I'm sure, 
but they won't be killing one another, or suffering the same endless doubts that 
I did."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Do you even have approval for this?"

<p>
</p>
"It is right. I need no more approval."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Nale, you're talking about taking away people's will, 
and their freedom of thought."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They rounded a corridor, and walked down a metal 
stairway. Their feet clanged on the steps.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Let me ask you a question," Nale said. "Why are you a 
captain?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"What do you mean? It's what I do."

<p>
</p>
"Great, that's how it should be. Why?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Because. Because I want to do my part in protecting 
the Cartel. And because I'm good at it."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Do you like doing things you're good at?"

<p>
</p>
"Of course."

<p>
</p>
<p>"And do you like doing your part for something you 
believe in?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"So long as my conscience can live with it, yes. And 
before you say a word, I may not always be perfectly happy with the way the 
Angels run things, but it doesn't compare to what you're planning."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Never said it did. Why do you like doing those 
things?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"What do you mean, why?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"It's your life's work. It's what you spend most of 
your day engaged in. Why?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I don't know. Because it gives me satisfaction, I 
suppose. I'm part of something, and I get to do it well."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Why?"

<p>
</p>
"Look, is there a point to this?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Absolutely. Keep answering the questions. Why do you 
want to be part of something and do your part well?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Same reason everyone would, I guess. To feel my life 
has a purpose."</p>
</span><span lang="EN">
<p>
</p>
<p>"And if you feel your life has a purpose, what does 
that do for you?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"It makes me happy."

<p>
</p>
<p>"Precisely," Nale said and gave her a frightening 
smile. "Anything you do, any purpose of your life, it'll eventually boil down to 
happiness. That's all we want; that's all everyone wants. The way we tear each 
other apart every day is borne only out of frustration that we cannot find the 
happiness we seek."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Funny, I thought it was a bit more complicated than 
that."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"It is if you let it. Most people don't truly think 
about why they do what they do, no matter whether it's drinking a bottle of 
Quafe or putting a bullet into someone's head. But you take almost anyone in 
this world and ask them why, believe me, it'll boil down to happiness in the 
end."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"You know, even if you were right, there are other 
ways to achieve this. People don't need to be brainwashed. You could simply 
encourage them to seek their own paths."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Most people are self-destructive, and unreliable even 
toward themselves. As a rule, they don't put much effort into their search for 
happiness, and no amount of positive encouragement is going to change that. Why 
do you think holoreels are as popular as they are, and meditation isn't?"</p>
<p>
</p>
They came to a door. Nale took off his backpack.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Still," Hona said, "You could do it differently. You 
don't have to push people towards bliss. You can encourage them to seek it 
themselves."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm not going to stand there, like a mad prophet, 
constantly harping on other people to go after their true purpose in life. All 
I'm going to do is eliminate the roadblocks."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Hona stepped in his way, and looked him straight in 
the eye. "Don't do this, Nale. Don't. If you even manage to regain the Book, 
you've no guarantee it'll work like you think, and even if it does, you'll be 
taking away people's basic rights. You'll be no better than the capsuleer who 
ruined our mining colony. And besides, how on earth will you achieve any change? 
What if the effect is only temporary?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Then we will use it on the right people first; the 
ones who determine the lives of others. Everyone at the top of the social 
stratus. Leaders, and dictators, and every capsuleer we can get to. After that, 
we will find ways of duplicating the Book, and we'll start to spread its word to 
the masses."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She goggled at him. "You're talking about a revolution 
here. You're going to be violating people's basic rights on a fundamental 
scale."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"The fundamental right of man is to be happy," he said 
to her. "You'll see. This is right. It's the only thing that makes sense."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He went around her, opened the door and stepped into 
the empty storage room beyond. He removed something from the bag, then dropped 
it outside the open door.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Hona looked at what he was carrying: Four inertial 
balls. She gave him a puzzled look.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I've modified them slightly," he said. "Removed the 
acceleration inhibitors."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Are you trying to die?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"I'm trying to see if I'm worthy of the task I've 
undertaken."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"How will you even know, apart from not ending up a 
bloody mess?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"I'll hear it on Black Mountain."

<p>
</p>
<p>She hesitated at that, unsure of what to say, and he 
turned away from her, whirling the inertial balls in his hands. There was a soft 
sound and a click, as of a gun being drawn and cocked. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale did not look back. "Now or never," he said, and 
after a moment he heard the door close behind him.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He smiled, and closed his eyes. The spirits moved 
around him, their hazy shadows enveloping him. Their whispers told him the 
truths.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He threw one ball. It bounced off the floor and sped 
up; bounced off the wall and sped up; bounced off the ceiling and sped up. Soon 
it was a blur, zooming through the room at bone-breaking speed with a cacophony 
of gongs as it bounced off the walls. Nale listened closely, and every time, 
stood where the soaring missile didn't go.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He threw the others, moving lithely from place to 
place as they bounced around him, his eyes opening and closing in tune to the 
blinking lights on the tree that still reached for him. He avoided its grasp, 
and he avoided the soft, soft rocks that bounced around, beckoning to him to 
hold them, to let them touch him.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They went faster and faster, until the entire room was 
covered in hazy, half-seen trajectories, the rocks tearing their way through the 
empty air. And still he dodged them, at a speed unimaginable, as they roared 
through the rapidly heating air, their hisses melding with that from the 
frustrated tree of kingdoms. The spirits guided him, and slowly the floor 
disappeared, until he was floating above the tarry sea of the shadowy angels and 
shared unconscious, seeing everything, knowing everything, in tune with the 
world, on this path that led inexorably to freedom.</p>
</span>


<br><br>
 
</p>
<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=649857">this link</a>.</i>
</p>


                            
                        
