# Black Mountain: The Canvas



<p>
</p>
<p>The infrastructure was looking shaky, but the hidden 
patterns told Shiqra he was safe, and he was sure they could get to a few more 
people before risking collapse. He'd been leading his team deeper into the 
bowels of the asteroid colony, finding survivors, tagging and prepping them for 
assistance, and verifying structure integrity so that the rescue squads could 
move in.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra was leader of a Sisters of EVE scout team. They 
ran in first, moved fast, found the victims who needed help, and moved on. Most 
of their equipment, which was kept as light as possible, consisted of structural 
and explosive gear. They had scanners, too, ones that searched for heat and 
electric signatures, but these rarely worked all that well in environments that 
were falling apart.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The path they were on forked into three routes, one of 
which was open, the other two caved in. Adjusting his ocular scanning, Shiqra 
saw high heat beyond the closed entrances. There would be blazing fires on the 
other side, which wouldn't threaten the Sisters but did block out any chance of 
automatic life detection.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra stood there for a moment, regarding the three 
routes. Long waits were not an option; life would be running out for whoever was 
trapped in the mines. He picked the leftmost path, one of the caved-in ones, and 
signaled to his teammates to hole it through. They all wore fire- and 
shock-resistant suits with full-head facial masks that were outfitted with air 
filters, night-vision specs and inbuilt voice transmitters, though the 
transmitters were rarely active. They were easy to use, but the team had long 
since gotten into the habit of nonverbal communication. Words were a waste, down 
in the darkness. Words were empty when you were cradling the dead.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>His team, which was unquestioning in their obedience, 
immediately set up a Spoke bomb. Spokes were supercompressed constructs of 
interconnected tritanium pins encased in an isolated chamber, with a small 
discharger set at their center. When a Spoke ruptured and the tritanium came 
into contact with air, it would expand violently, blowing away anything in its 
immediate vicinity. The tritanium spokes would click into place and form a 
complex prismic polyhedron, similar to a hubless wheel. The spokes were 
perfectly balanced, and effectively created a hole in a wall through which a 
person could pass. It wouldn't be big enough to let through a rescue team laden 
down with equipment, but then, it didn't need to be. The scout teams only found 
people; they did not cure them, and the proper rescue teams had their own 
demolitions gear.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The team passed through the Spoke gap and rushed on. 
Down holes and chutes they went, Shiqra first, and it was as if he were hunting 
for ghosts, chasing the steady clockwork rhythm of a heart before it could beat 
it last. He took each turn with no hesitation, rushing through with complete 
assurance of motion. He could never tell anyone else this, but he knew his way 
around by now. He was starting to pick up the patterns.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He found himself distancing from the process, going 
out of his body as if his corporeal self were controlled by some outside force, 
and he thought back to the first heavy-carnage missions he'd been on.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He'd done a few regular scouting missions, and loved 
them, but was still hesitant about the job. He was escaping a bad life of drug 
use and self-abuse, and had really found himself in the Sisters, but he was 
always afraid of relapsing, of losing control. If felt like there was something 
curled up within him, something that he'd never been able to control, and even 
as he got over the withdrawal effects and experienced the joy of helping people 
- and the sadness and horror of losing them - this core remained, untouched and 
waiting.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It wasn't until he went on the first mass-rescue 
mission, in yet another pirate refinery wrecked by some murderous capsuleer, and 
came upon the first mass of writhing, screaming humanity trapped within, that he 
truly felt this core inside of him start to crack open. It was horrifying, so 
horrifying that his mind left his body and he looked down upon himself as he 
tagged all those people - putting markers on them that would let the rescue 
teams find them and prioritize their care - and then kept on going in search for 
more life. It wasn't until much later that he realized he hadn't disconnected to 
save his sanity; he had done it because he felt, at last, like he was part of 
something larger than himself. He was no longer the focus and the center of his 
own little perceptual world, and that little core inside of him, that compressed 
ball of potential, began to respond to this new widening of the world. It 
started to unfurl, to stretch out.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Back in the present, Shiqra found himself at another 
passage. They'd passed a couple more people, tagging them as they went along, 
and were now at the entrance to the mine's deep, less traveled sections. The 
rock here was too thick for any signals to pass through, so they'd have to go 
entirely on instinct, and without any communication. There were several possible 
ways they could go, and Shiqra immediately split the team up into pairs of 
scouts, directing each pair towards a particular entrance. One of his team 
members, possibly nervous about going dark and losing all chance of 
communication, spoke out loud to Shiqra and commented with far too much cheer 
how he always seemed to know where to go, to direct them so they didn't end up 
under the falling girder or the exploding vat of acid, or whatever. His voice 
broke the silence like a shot and made the other team members nervous, but 
Shiqra laughed, and replied that he'd done a lot of these missions. It was no 
answer, he knew, but in the suffocating darkness of the mines, it sufficed, and 
calmed.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The scout pairs went their way; those who were going 
into open entrances started running, while the ones who needed to clear away 
rubble readied their Spoke bombs. Shiqra watched while his team trickled away. 
It was policy to travel in teams, but his status as team leader, and his renown 
as one of the Sisters' best scouts, was sufficient that he could travel all 
alone. His reasoning was that when he found a trail he would travel so fast that 
others had problems keeping up with him; and his team, which had worked with him 
for a while, uniformly agreed.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>After he'd seen off the last of his teammates, he set 
off a Spoke on a remaining passage he'd indicated he would explore. He waited 
until he was sure that everyone else was out of earshot, then ran back up the 
passage they'd come, until he reached a side tunnel that they'd missed. It was 
hard to spot; the entrance was in a dark part of the mine that even their 
night-vision didn't cover well, and it hadn't been shored up properly, so it 
looked like a bountiless cul-de-sac full of rubble.</p>
<p>
</p>
Shiqra knew better. He'd seen the signs.

<p>
</p>
<p>He used free-form explosives to clear off some of the 
rubble, then a Spoke to make a hole through which he could crawl. When he was 
through, he disabled the Spoke's safety and deactivated it. Rubble fell back 
into the hole, and it looked as if it had never been there.</p>
<p>
</p>
Shiqra descended.

<p>
</p>
<p>As he'd done more missions, he'd felt a growing need 
to partake in the bloody ones, the missions where participating rescuer workers 
usually got put on leave for a few days after completing. That feeling of being 
a part of something greater, of being nonindividual and yet being important, was 
constantly on his mind.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And eventually, he began to see the signs. The other 
pieces of the mosaic. The other strokes of the brush.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>That thing which was curled up inside him, that core 
no one could see, was the dawning understanding that someone was behind this. 
Someone had created these situations and was using them to make a kind of living 
- and dying - work of art, and in Shiqra's attraction to them he had become an 
element of the masterpiece. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It was entirely possible that he had gone mad, of 
course. He didn't doubt that. But he also didn't doubt his feelings, and he 
listened to them. Other team members often spoke about numbing yourself to 
experience, but that kind of attitude was anathema to him. He wanted to feel it 
all. And by and by, he started to find the patterns.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He began to exhibit an amazing ability to find living 
survivors where local interference meant scanning equipment couldn't detect any. 
But he knew he was simply being led there, and being tested. At every turn there 
would be an omen. Sometimes it would be obvious to him, though nobody else would 
notice: an oddly broken rock lying among the rest, a tatter of clothing hanging 
from an inconspicuous part in the ceiling, or some barely noticeable spatter of 
blood on a nearly hidden surface, all of which were out of place. He never 
mentioned these signs, but merely followed them. As he progressed, they started 
disappearing, replaced with the far more potent absence of anything important at 
all. The silence and emptiness in certain paths told him just as much as the 
noise and the visuals had done before. They spoke of unfulfilled potential; 
something <i>could</i> have been here, they said, and as it wasn't, he should 
investigate further.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>There was something responsible for these 
catastrophes, Shiqra decided, a pattern to the blood and fire, and it was 
leading him on.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It happened only sporadically. Not every rescue 
mission he took brought him closer to transcendence. But he learned to recognize 
the ones that would, such as when they occurred and under what circumstances, 
and managed to find more and more. And every time, he progressed deeper, and his 
core stretched out and began to fill his body with truth and art.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He was going down the hole now, being led through dark 
places, following the patterns. Sometimes he'd see a hint, sometimes he 
wouldn't. This was initiation as much as invitation.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And at last he came to another pile of rubble that 
clearly was empty and devoid of any kind of interest. The absence of life was 
all the invitation he needed. He detonated a Spoke, opened a hole to the other 
side, and crawled through.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He made his way into a large, circular room that was a 
testament, a living altar. Bodies were strewn about, shredded and burned, and 
the few who seemed still alive were barely so. There was mining equipment here, 
and it had been put to use.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And in the middle of the room, sitting on top of a 
pile of equipment as if he were an emperor on his throne, sat a man who he'd 
later know as Yorlas, holding a massive rifle called a veinshredder.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas, who was apparently quite comfortable where he 
was, leant even further back and watched Shiqra with languid eyes. Then he 
raised the veinshredder, pointed it in Shiqra's direction, and fired.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>In that split second, Shiqra's instinctive reaction 
was not to dodge the shot or move from its trajectory, but to stand still and 
accept it. It took his body a moment to realize that nothing had yet torn 
through his body, and he was truly surprised, not merely instinctively but 
intellectually, at not having been shot. He realized that he had accepted the 
firing, almost as a rebirth, and that this man, who he knew without doubt was 
the one responsible for this catastrophe and so many others, was the artist 
whose red, red paint had covered Shiqra's canvas core.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra then realized that something else had been 
shot, and that whatever it was, it was thrashing about behind him, making 
horrible screeching sounds. He didn't look back. What mattered was in front of 
him: The artist, and the masterwork, and, approaching them with equal 
trepidation and joy, their supplicant.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>With the barrel of his massive gun, Yorlas pointed 
towards a glinting patch on the floor. A knife lay there. "Take it," Yorlas 
said, "And kill yourself."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra hesitated, not out of unwillingness but simply 
surprise at the request. He walked over to the knife, hefted it, gently tested 
its edge. It was sharp, and he knew that once he turned on its diathermic field, 
it would slide in without any resistance.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He didn't want to do his. He wanted to live. Of course 
he wanted to live. But that was not what this was about. He was not the artist, 
and it was not his to decide what his own fate would be. He was the brush with 
which the work was painted, and the canvas that gratefully accepted its art. 
Tools could not disobey their masters. He felt a budding kind of pride, because 
he realized he was being reminded of his place, and while he still felt that he 
could be of use, he didn't question the art. He knew he would serve a purpose 
that reached far beyond himself.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas put the veinshredder aside, laced his fingers 
together under his chin, and watched Shiqra intently.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Shiqra pointed the knife against himself and was about 
to plunge it in when Yorlas yelled, "Stop!"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>In the silence, there was nothing but the silent 
breathing of the walls, the condensation drops falling on blackened rock, and 
the cough and gurgle of the life that lay around them, passing away.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas said, "Change of plan," and nodded his head 
towards an inert form that lay in a corner. It was a person who was barely 
moving, having been cut and beaten quite badly. It was a woman's form, in torn 
miner's clothing. She was thin and apart from her injuries did not look very old 
or worn; she couldn't have been working in the mines for more than a year. She 
had long, white, curly hair. Possibly she had been an overseer, or one of the 
engineers making an inspection.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And without hesitation, but without any hurry, Shiqra, 
still holding the knife, went over to her, took hold of her hair and rolled her 
over so that her neck was exposed. His grip on her hair was firm, lest she 
struggle, but there was no need for it; her eyes rolled around in their sockets 
to catch a glimpse of him, but otherwise she was completely docile. Shiqra 
crouched, and slowly sunk the knife in her throat.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She made coughing motions, but otherwise did not move, 
and Shiqra idly wondered what the artist had done to her to procure this kind of 
serenity. They must have been here a while. He knew she was dying now, but it 
felt like something more was expected of him. He repositioned her and cupped his 
hands under the bloodflow. After he had a full hand, he began to walk the room, 
sprinkling and smearing the blood on the walls like the apprentice painter 
imitating a master artist.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He did this until the blood ran dry. Yorlas didn't 
speak much during the entire process, but then, he didn't need to. His actions 
had set the stage, and Shiqra was merely signing the work in his name.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>And when it was over, and the sacrifice done, Shiqra 
stood with his eyes closed, and felt that unfurling core reach out to its full 
length, the canvas stretching itself taut, until he had lost almost the final 
vestige of whatever had held him back.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>But something remained. There was a purpose for him 
here, something that would keep him going forever, the brush in the artist's 
hand, but he had to know one thing. The last doubt, rubbed away.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"How did you know I would kill myself?" he asked 
Yorlas.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Why do you need to know?" Yorlas asked in return, 
with unhidden amusement in his voice.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"I've done everything else. I <i>am</i> someone else. 
The one I was always meant to be, I think. But still ... how did you know?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Yorlas leaned forward and, in three short words, 
completed the change, and stretched the canvas to its full and unyielding size.</p>
<p>
</p>
"You were smiling," he said.





<br><br>
 
<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=662579">this link</a>.</i>
</p> 


                            
                        
