# Black Mountain: A Pleasant Surprise




<p>
</p>
<p>Draea's team was convinced they'd thrown off any 
trails, and contacted the Society for further flight instructions. They received 
a bookmark labeled "hidden kitz", along with two pieces of coding information 
that they added to data chips they'd picked up along the way.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The bookmark took them to an ancient stargate that 
looked like it was falling to pieces. There was no detectable activity on any 
part of the gate, and after trying several times to establish basic contact 
Krezek threw up his hands in disgust.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Have you tried the password?" Draea said. She was 
sitting at the controls on the other side of the bridge, running last-minute 
checks on their weapon systems in case the gate flung them anywhere interesting.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"There's no point in trying the password unless I can 
get a channel to the gate."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Try the password."

<p>
</p>
"There's no point!"

<p>
</p>
"Krezek-"

<p>
</p>
"No!"

<p>
</p>
<p>Polok, who was standing behind Draea, leaned in and 
murmured, "We're all on edge here, so don't push the boy too hard. Remember the 
nestlings."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She stared at him in incomprehension, then ordered 
Krezek to get out of his seat. She moved over to his place, and he started 
hovering around her like a parent having his infant inspected, asking what she 
was planning to do. She said, "I'm planning to drill a hole in your head if you 
don't stop breathing down my neck. Go have a drink."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Polok hung back, without comment. Once Krezek had 
left, Draea said to him, "I don't think that the dead piece of metal we're 
seeing on the screen is only that and nothing more. I'm going to open a monoplex 
channel to the gate and throttle transfer from the data chip. You, on the other 
hand, are going to explain the nestlings."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Polok had taken Draea's old seat and was leaning back 
in it so much that he could place his feet up on the control board. He grinned 
and said, "I figured you knew about this already. Krezek and I worked on some 
assignments a few years back. Ugly stuff, mostly, with a lot of tense downtimes 
and waiting in bad places, so we ended up shooting the breeze. Krezek was good 
backup, by the way, but he was an absolute A-type who just had to do things in 
his own orderly, logical fashion. He gets a strange kind of peace out of it, and 
if things get too chaotic - not messy, just nonlinear - he'll develop some 
really weird tension relievers."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"So far, nothing new," Draea said, "neither on the 
gate nor Krezek. Nestlings, explain."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"When Krezek was a boy he was, like the rest of us, 
rather ... special. Brilliant, but he had no concept of right or wrong, or why 
on earth he should follow social mores. I do this stuff because I like it, you 
do it for whatever reason you have, but to Krezek, death and torture are just 
ways of relieving the tension, and bringing the universe back to order."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Still nothing. Maybe I should open multiplex instead. 
Keep going," Draea said.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"One day, after he'd suffered some particularly 
vicious beatings from his stepdad, or his teacher, or whoever put that dark 
little seed into his childhood head, he went down to the local bird-feeding park 
and sat down by its little pond. They were using Soft Crumbs there, you know, 
stuff that's chemically designed to attract birds so they won't be frightened 
off by hyperactive, screaming kids. So he brought a few bags of Crumbs, tossed a 
handful out into the pond in front of him, and these tiny little baby birds 
start swimming up to him. And Krezek, wonderful, twisted Krezek, starts picking 
them out of the water, them so calm and relaxed from eating all that chem-laced 
bread, and he wrings their necks. He picks nestling after nestling out of the 
water, calmly twists its neck so its tiny beak is pointed towards its tail, and 
lays it to the side, until he's got a nice big pile of dead little birds. And 
the funny thing is, he doesn't do it with any kind of menace or satisfaction. It 
simply feels like something he needs to do, to fulfill his role and adjust the 
balance of the cosmos or what have you. He opens bag after bag of Crumbs, tosses 
endless handfuls to the poor young, and by the end the pile of birds is bigger 
than he is. He only stopped because his hands were getting too greasy from their 
down."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea stared at him. "That's ... messed up," she said 
at last.</p>
<p>
</p>
"Yes."

<p>
</p>
<p>"I've cut more throats than an army of barbers, and 
that's still way messed up."</p>
<p>
</p>
"That's Krezek. Any luck on the transmissions?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"No, but I've got an idea. We've been sending this 
signal encoded - which is stupid because there's nobody here to spy on it anyway 
- but since we're not actually getting a response from the gate, we've no idea 
whether it's accepting the transmission method. And if it isn't, the rest of the 
message it receives is just going to be some random stream of garbage. I'm going 
to try sending it with just the base encoding, nothing fancy."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Is this all highly complicated?"

<p>
</p>
"Mmm, not so much. Why?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"Because I've been looking at the control board, and 
you've been doing quite a bit more than just hailing the gate."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Mind your own business," she said, without much 
rancor, but paused her actions.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"It's almost as if you're sending data to someone 
else, too."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Yeah?"

<p>
</p>
<p>Polok ambled over and sat down beside her. "It's no 
mystery, you know."</p>
<p>
</p>
A smile crept into Draea's features.

<p>
</p>
<p>He continued, "I don't mind. I like a good fight. But 
I can't help wonder why you want <i>him</i>. I doubt he could fight his way out 
of a tent."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She said, "To be honest, I'm not even sure myself. You 
can have the rest of them as far as I'm concerned, but him, I need to talk to. 
When we activated the Book, something happened, and he was part of it. You 
didn't have any visions during the blackout, did you?"</p>
<p>
</p>
"Nope. Stone cold," he said.

<p>
</p>
"Figured. I did."

<p>
</p>
"And he was in it?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"He was. And what's more, it feels like we're 
connected now. He feels like the other side of me, one I wasn't even aware that 
I had."</p>
<p>
</p>
Polok gave her a strange look.

<p>
</p>
<p>"I know," she said. "I don't like it much, to be 
honest. I saw some things in the fugue that I need to clear up, and I've got an 
ugly feeling that if I don't deal with him now, he's going to become a much, 
much bigger problem later on. So I'm leading him to us."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"How do you know it wasn't just some total 
hallucination?"</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Two reasons. First, it felt more real than anything. 
Second, well ... toss a bullet." She pulled out a small knife from her belt, and 
stood up, but remained where she stood and did not turn to face the bridge.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Polok looked at her askew, but got up, pulled out a 
gun, took out its clip and dislodged a bullet. The manufacturer's initials had 
been stamped on the circumference of its rear end.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"Face the bridge," Draea said, still facing away from 
him and staring out at the stars. "Toss. No countdown, just toss."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>He shrugged, and threw the bullet in the air, away 
from them.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Draea leaned her head down, closed her eyes and lifted 
her shoulders. She then raised the knife and, without turning, threw it back 
over her head.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She kept her eyes closed, and heard Polok say, 
"However the hell you did that, you shouldn't have been able to. And you owe me 
a bullet."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>She laughed, sat again and opened her eyes, then 
pressed the activation button for the data sequence to the gate. For a few 
moments, nothing happened. Then there was a spark, a series of sparks, and the 
gate became illuminated in electricity which arced towards their ship and 
surrounded it. Draea saw her vessel start to move, align, prepare and, finally, 
warp.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>A few seconds later, they dropped out of warp in front 
of an abandoned station of Gallente design.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They flew up to it. Draea transmitted the second code 
she'd received, and the station, its immense bulk floating inert in space, 
opened its docking bay and pulled their ship inside.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Once they were safely docked, they got out of the ship 
and into the bay proper. A special container for the Book was waiting for them, 
so they yanked it out of its original box, which they'd been wheeling around on 
an electric pallet, and put it into the container. It instantly closed and 
auto-sealed.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Using passwords sent by the Society, Krezek accessed 
the station's status monitors and found that large parts of the station were 
dark: Not in use and unable to power up to any kind of active functionality, 
although the atmosphere systems were apparently kept working on minimum 
capacity. The only fully functioning areas were a few kilometers away, in a 
complex of labs both scientific and otherwise. Krezek got more and more excited 
the further he inspected the data; apparently these were real complexes, with 
hi-tech facilities, torture labs - no one had said the Jove were nice - and all 
sorts of automated machinery to change the systems around and even alter their 
interior architecture. The deeper one got, the more mutable the systems appeared 
to be.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Polok asked Draea, "Those passwords for the station 
controls, you didn't share those as well, did you?" She shook her head.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Krezek was too enraptured to notice. He said, half to 
himself and half to anyone in the vicinity, "Gods, I'd love to try out some of 
the stuff they've got here. Do you see this? Self-modifying walls! And it's all 
wired up. It's like the blueprint for the world's biggest rat maze."</p>
<p>
</p>
"What's keeping you?" Polok asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"Well, there's not much I can do with it, apart from 
make it reform itself. I'd need a live subject if it's to be any fun."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Polok looked at Draea, then back at Krezek. "I think 
there I can offer a pleasant surprise."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>The Sisters ship docked at the abandoned Gallente 
station. Its crew - a blithe Nale, a watchful Zetyn, a frowning Monas and a very 
angry Hona - made its way onto the bay. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale had plugged the tracking device into his ship and 
used it to find his way here, though it wasn't until the device received data 
directly transmitted from Draea's own ship computer that they'd really taken 
off.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Zetyn checked if they could access the station's 
status monitors, but no luck. </p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Nale took the lead. They took another few careful 
steps, Nale at the forefront, until he stooped and picked something up. It was a 
little bronze pellet, and as soon as he touched it, tiny blades shot out and 
nicked his fingers. He didn't flinch, but lifted it to his face and smiled.</p>
<p>
</p>
"What's so funny?" Hona said.

<p>
</p>
"We're being ambushed," he replied.

<p>
</p>
<p>There was a tink-tink-tink sound as something bounced 
towards them. It was a multiburst grenade, set to kinetic. As all but Nale 
started to turn and run, it exploded, and the shockwave threw them unconscious 
onto the floor.</p>





<br><br>

<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=678085">this link</a>.</i>
</p> 


                            
                        
