# Black Mountain: Sounding the Horns of the Hunt



<p>
</p>
<p>Jonak and I were bringing our vessel back to home when 
we got the call. I had recently switched teams within the Sisters of EVE, 
joining the Sanctuary at long last, and the missions could be draining. I'd been 
hoping for this one to be a nice, quiet trip back to base for reassignment 
briefing and a bit of a rest.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>We were in Ammatar space, and there were no other 
Sister ships in the immediate vicinity. The only reason we were even coming 
through here was that our ship needed a quick overhaul from the station 
mechanics. It was secure space, which the Navies patrolled, and help calls were 
usually routed to them.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>We did have other teams on standby, but the emergency 
call we received was from a ship, not an orbiting object. This was unusual, 
since ships were far more volatile and thus didn't usually have the time to call 
for help from anyone but their own supporting forces. Still, the call indicated 
there weren't many people onboard, and that it was a serious emergency, so we 
changed course and sped to their position.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>As we flew there, more strange information came in. 
The ship was apparently an Ammatar caravan, which was natural enough, and was 
located in a system that bordered the Angel space nearby, but they were 
broadcasting on our emergency band. This meant they had foregone their own 
corporate channel to request backup, and while the emergency band would bring in 
the Sisters, it might also attract scavengers.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>We made it to the ship and found it a smoking husk, 
its engines barely firing and its hull cracked to pieces. It didn't seem to have 
ruptured, though, which meant there might be people alive inside. The ship was a 
caravan and wouldn't have had any offensive gear to speak of, but I noticed 
several wrecks in the vicinity and suspected those were the remains of whatever 
force had been here to protect it. I couldn't see whether the wrecks were Navy 
or pirate ships, but it didn't matter. Nothing else moved, and nobody made to 
attack us. It didn't feel like a trap, and for veterans like us, that feeling is 
really all we need to decide whether to engage.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Deeper scans verified the caravan's structural 
integrity and life-support systems, and so we had official permission to board. 
We suited up, let our ship clamp on to the caravan, set up the tube connectors, 
and boarded, into smoke, fire, blood and screaming.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
<i>
</i></p>
#1: What are we going to do about this case?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: Well, there've been reports of the station being 
destroyed, but nobody's really that interested in something that's been a 
derelict for ages, so there won't be any press. When our cleanup team got there 
for official emergency assistance, the damn Society had already cleaned the 
scene and gone. There was nothing left to salvage.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: Not even a bit of the machine?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: Especially not the machine. It's gone, and gone 
for good if I'm any judge.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: So there's nothing left? Whole mission was a wash?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: No, not at all. We found out some interesting 
things, and there's still someone out there who we might extract valid intel 
from if we can find her.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: Who?

<p>
</p>
#2: Some Angel woman.


<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>We moved through the ship, judging who was salvageable 
and who wasn't. Cherrypicking is a cold concept at best, but when you're 
surrounded by the rapidly dying, you don't have time to give succour. Since 
there was a decent amount of ground to cover in a very limited time, we covered 
the main areas first - ops levels and living quarters - and checked the vitals 
on whoever was still in one piece. There were lots of people in shock, but 
they'd be alright. The hardest ones to leave were those who'd had some kind of 
surface damage; you never quite know if they'll be in so much pain that they'll 
cling to you and demand assistance, and sometimes you have to be nasty and give 
them a little tap on the injured area, just to make them let go.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>We were checking on someone whose ribs weren't all 
intact, when he started asking about angels. It took me a moment to realize he 
was talking about the pirates, and that there was probably an Angel on the ship. 
I gave Jonak a look, then gave our patient a quick booster shot to clear his 
head, and asked him who he meant.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>"There was an Angel representative on the ship," he 
said. "He rushed to the exits when we were attacked."</p>
<p>
</p>
"Was he armed?" I asked.

<p>
</p>
<p>"No, just had some strange device with him, but it 
didn't look like a weapon."</p>
<p>
</p>
"What was it?"

<p>
</p>
<p>"This curved metal thing, with a red ball in the 
middle."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I looked at Jonak again and said, "Doesn't sound like 
anything I know."</p>
<p>
</p>
He gave me a strange look and said, "No, me neither."

<p>
</p>
<p>After we'd strapped in those cases who were 
near-critical and prepped them for removal, Jonak told me he was going to look 
for the Angel, and that I should take the casualties to our own ship and stay 
there. It was a perfectly sensible idea: Someone had to tend to the wounded and, 
if something went wrong, be ready to make a getaway. Everyone else on the 
caravan was in good enough shape to live but not good enough to defend 
themselves if some pirate started wreaking havoc. And besides, Jonak had a lot 
more combat training.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I kept the criticals conscious as I shuttled them 
through the tube back to our ship. It would make the ride more unpleasant for 
them, but until I could get them into our sick bays and do a more thorough scan, 
I couldn't risk having them slip into a coma. I kept up a gently rolling 
dialogue all the way, asking them about their trip here, and keeping their minds 
off things as much as I could.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>They told me things I already knew, that they were an 
Ammatar caravan that had gone to the border of Angel space for some strange 
business. I nodded and hummed and encouraged them to keep talking, trying to 
judge their state by the strength in their voices. It was a secret mission, so 
the Ammatar corp they belonged to had washed its hands of them beforehand. If 
they landed in trouble, they'd be on their own. Their Ammatar employers had 
heard that the Angels had been making deep-space incursions into hereto 
unexamined pockets of space and digging up various items, including some that 
might prove of marked value in the future. The Ammatars didn't particularly know 
what these items were, and had little interest in any particular ones, but they 
wanted to strengthen their illicit trading ties to the Angels just in case they 
could reap some profits or get first dibs on lucrative offers. That was why, I 
realized, they hadn't sent out an emergency call to their company, but only to 
the Sisters.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Everything had gone smoothly, they said, until the 
capsuleer showed up. He'd likely been on a pirate hunt and had destroyed every 
Angel ship around them, then gone for the caravan. Since they'd been without 
protection, no Navy forces had shown up, and the capsuleer only stopped firing 
instants before the caravan was about to explode. He untargeted, sucked the 
pirate wrecks dry of hardware, and left without a second thought, though whether 
he'd run out of ammo or merely out of patience was anyone's guess. Of all that 
had happened to these people, I heard their voices take on the hardest tone when 
talking about that capsuleer.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I'd only just gotten them into the sickbeds and hooked 
them up when there was a warning sound. I rushed to the bridge and checked the 
scanners. The Ammatar ship was going critical. I hailed Jonak and yelled at him 
to get out, but got no response. I was about to check whether our connecting 
tube was still intact when there was a bright, bright flash, a shower of stars, 
and whatever was left of the caravan was reduced to a dead tangle of metal. 
Nobody could have survived that explosions, and my quick scans showed no life 
vessels of any kind in the vicinity. The ones we'd left on that ship were gone, 
and Jonak with them.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I pinched my eyes shut and rubbed my temples. You 
distanced yourself from this, of course you did, and you shoved it down into 
that place where the memories lie, but you knew it would rise again, some day.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I was about to set my ship on course when the scanners 
informed me that someone had entered it just before the explosion. My stomach 
turned, and for a moment I had the strongest feeling that it was the Angel, or 
one of the dead Ammatars, or someone else I didn't know at all. I immediately 
checked the person's identity, and breathed out deeply. It was Jonak.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
<i>
</i></p>
<p>#1: Have our guys come up with anything to explain 
what made Nale lose it so thoroughly?</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#2: We're looking into the nanobots, whether he got 
too high a dose of them. Personally, I doubt we'll come up with much. Might've 
been the bots, or his previous illness and whatever that did to his head, or 
something entirely different. We don't know everything about what happened out 
there.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: And nothing useful from Zetyn?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: Very little. In his lucid moments he's been 
perfectly willing to talk, but it's half fact and half religious diatribe. Quite 
frankly, I don't think we can trust anything he says, other than that Nale was 
definitely getting unbalanced towards the end.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#1: Shame. I don't like losing operatives, or losing 
control of them. We're supposed to be better organized than this.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#2: I agree. But with an operation of this magnitude, 
you can never plan for everything. If something catches you by surprise, you 
deal with it as swiftly as possible, contain the ripples, and move on with your 
plan.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: My thoughts exactly.


<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I immediately asked Jonak if he was okay, and he 
nodded his head. I was about to ask whether he'd found anyone, but held my 
tongue; everyone on that ship was dead, we knew that, and Jonak's face 
understandably didn't look open to any more questions. And besides, we needed to 
take care of those three survivors on our ship.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I began keying in the course, assuming I'd be going 
with Jonak to sick bay, but he told me to stay at the helm. He said he could 
easily take care of our patients - at this point it was mostly an issue of 
keeping them comfy and hoping they'd survive the trip - and he preferred me to 
stay at the helm for manual adjustment so we could get to base in better time. I 
agreed, so we took off.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Warping wasn't an option with our patients, and Jonak 
retreated to sick bay to watch over them during our lengthy trip. We had 
monitors on the bridge that showed our patients' status, but I knew from 
experience that I'd be way too busy working with the AI to get us home in good 
time, so I kept them off to avoid the distraction. If anything were to go wrong, 
either with Jonak or the patients, several emergency procedures would 
immediately notify me.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>At one point I did turn on the sound feed from sick 
bay, just to give it a quick check. All I heard was Jonak murmuring quietly to 
one of the patients, and, after a while, the patient whispering some response. 
The sick man's voice was haggardly and full of pain, and I felt very relieved 
that he had Jonak there with him.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">
<i>
</i></p>
#1: What's Zetyn's state?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: The same. He still suffers from acute 
claustrophobia and is making even less sense than he did before. We're keeping 
him under examination, but I doubt it'll be for much longer.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#1: Did we really get nothing useable from that man? 
He was a solid operative, reliable and quick.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#2: Right now, all he does is rock back and forth in 
the isolation compartment, asking us what the formula is. Sometimes he'll throw 
himself at the walls, and if he sees anyone on the other side of the safety 
glass, he screams himself hoarse.</p>

<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>At last we got close to base, so I hailed sick bay and 
said, "Docking in a few. Get ready for evac."</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>A couple of minutes later, I heard Jonak return to the 
bridge. His steps were soft and slow, and he laid a hand on my shoulder, saying, 
"Don't bother."</p>
<p>
</p>
I turned and silently looked at him.

<p>
</p>
He said, "It's quiet now, back there."

<p>
</p>
I closed my eyes and sighed deeply.

<p>
</p>
<p>We'd been so close, and with everyone we'd lost, I 
really had hoped we could save these three.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>So we docked in silence, and we made preparations for 
the burial of the dead. That should have been the end of it.</p>
<p>
</p>
Until I found that video.

<p>
</p>
<p>Something gnawed at me, something about the whole trip 
I couldn't quite make sense of. On a sleepless night, some days later, I made a 
nocturnal trek to our offices and called up the videos from our flight. The sick 
bay ones hadn't been filed - we Sisters are good at humans, usually, but bad at 
bureaucracy - and all I could get my hands on were general monitoring records 
for the ship's entrances, bridge and exits.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>I went over some of my own actions while I'd been in 
route control, and kept looking for some kind of flight bump or course deviation 
that I knew I hadn't made. It wasn't so much to assuage my conscience, but 
rather to completely eliminate the chance that what I was looking for was 
anything as normal as a simple mistake.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>It wasn't until I had switched to the other videos and 
watched Jonak's miraculous entry a dozen times that I noticed what I'd been 
missing, or rather, what he'd been missing when he finally turned up on the 
bridge.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>Setting the viewers to magnify and sharpen, I focused, 
and focused, and focused, aiming the unseen eye directly at Jonak's pocket. 
There was a clear bulge in there, one that definitely had not been present when 
he entered the caravan, nor when he came back to me on the bridge.</p>
<p>
</p>
Focus, focus, focus.

<p>
</p>
<p>A curved bulge, its axis slightly more voluminous, 
like it had a ball set in its middle.</p>
<p>
</p>
Like the Angel had brought on board.

<p>
</p>
<p>I didn't want to know any more. I didn't want to be on 
the roads that would lead to a place I'd never quite escape from. So I shut down 
the viewer, and I left our office, and I went home, and some time later, I 
finally slept.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p align="CENTER" dir="LTR">***</p>
<p>
<i>
</i></p>
<p>#1: And this one, we're sure he never told anyone 
else?</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#2: Positive. We took him in for soft questioning, got 
his report, then administered the nanobots.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: How's he now?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: We're keeping him isolated while we clear up his 
business and set up the accident. We should be able to execute in two weeks' 
time. The biggest hurdle is the coroner's reports, since the Sanctuary always 
has to give such incredibly detailed ones when our people die.</p>
<p>
</p>
#1: Is it going to be a problem?

<p>
</p>
<p>#2: No. And when he's been dealt with, along with that 
poor bastard Zetyn, we'll have finished this sorry little venture. The remaining 
catalysts have already been put into recycling.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#1: It's a shame. I liked working with him. If he 
hadn't taken a look at those videos, or seen what I carried back onboard the 
ship, he might've survived this whole damn mess of a project.</p>
<p>
</p>
#2: Still. Loose ends.

<p>
</p>
<p>#1: Yes. Speaking of which, there's still the matter 
of the Angel woman.</p>
<p>
</p>
<p>#2: No matter. With everyone else gone, she'll have a 
hard time finding anyone to believe her story. We'll keep out some long-term 
feelers for her, but it's nothing we need concern ourselves with. As far as this 
institution is concerned, the Book is tightly closed shut, forever.</p>









<br><br>

<hr>
<p align="CENTER"><br>
<i>To discuss the story with other EVE players, click <a href="http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&amp;threadID=712941">this link</a>.</i>
</p> 


                            
                        
